NAME
  list - owned ordered List values

SYNOPSIS
  List OF T

DESCRIPTION
  List OF T is an owned ordered sequence. Every item has the same element type
  T, and indexes are zero-based.

  A list value owns its contents. Binding a list with LET creates an immutable
  snapshot. Binding a list with MUT creates a locally mutable binding, but the
  value is still owned by that binding.

LITERALS
  List literals use square brackets:

    LET nums = [1, 2, 3]
    LET empty AS List OF String = []

  Empty lists need an expected type from an annotation or surrounding context.

COPYING
  Lists are copyable only when their element type is copyable. Copying a list
  copies the list contents. The runtime collection layout is one contiguous
  allocation, so copying a collection snapshot can be implemented as one
  contiguous memory copy.

  A copied list is independent of the original. Mutating one list binding does
  not mutate another copied snapshot.

OWNED ITEMS
  List items are owned by the list. Primitive values are stored as payload
  bytes. String payloads stored inside a collection are UTF-8 bytes owned by the
  collection. The collection representation stores lookup metadata plus packed
  item bytes in one allocation.

  Version 1 collection storage supports primitive and String payloads directly.
  User-defined records, unions, and nested collection payloads require an
  extended representation before they can be stored directly inside collection
  data.

MUTATION
  Collection helper functions such as append, prepend, insert, set, removeAt,
  mid, replace, filter, and transform return the resulting list value.

  For MUT list bindings, the compiler may update the local owned buffer when it
  is safe to do so. For LET list bindings, the original value remains an
  immutable snapshot and helper calls produce a new value.

  The runtime layout keeps list order in the lookup table. Adding, removing, or
  reordering items can often move lookup entries instead of moving packed item
  bytes, which minimizes payload copying.

ITERATION
  FOR EACH iterates list items from index 0 to len(value) - 1:

    FOR EACH item IN nums
      io::print(toString(item))
    NEXT

SEE ALSO
  types map
  collection
  mfbasic
