NAME
  input - read a line of text from standard input, optionally prompting first

SYNOPSIS
  io::input() AS String
  io::input(prompt AS String) AS String

PACKAGE
  io

IMPORTS
  IMPORT io

DESCRIPTION
  Reads a single line from standard input and returns it as a String. Bytes are
  read from file descriptor 0 one at a time until a newline (LF, byte 10) is
  seen or end of file is reached. The trailing newline is removed, and a
  trailing carriage return (from a CRLF line ending) is also stripped, so the
  returned String holds only the line's content.

  When called with a prompt argument, the prompt is written to standard output
  and then flushed before any input is read, so the cursor waits on the same
  line as the prompt. The prompt is written verbatim; no trailing space or
  newline is added. An empty prompt is written as nothing and is not flushed,
  making io::input("") behave like io::input() for the read itself.

  Input is decoded as UTF-8 as it is read. Each multi-byte sequence is validated
  and may encode any valid Unicode scalar value, including emoji; an ill-formed
  byte sequence fails rather than producing replacement characters. The input
  buffer grows as needed to hold the line, so there is no fixed length limit
  other than available memory.

  Typed characters are echoed by the terminal in the normal cooked-mode manner;
  io::input does not alter the terminal mode. The function reads from the same
  standard input stream as io::readLine — the only difference is the optional
  prompt — so the two should not be interleaved in a way that splits a single
  logical line.

OVERLOADS
  io::input() AS String
    Reads a line from standard input without writing a prompt.

  io::input(prompt AS String) AS String
    Writes prompt to standard output, flushes it, then reads a line. A failure
    while writing or flushing the prompt is reported before any input is read.

PARAMETERS
  prompt AS String
    Text written to standard output and flushed before the line is read.
    Interpreted as UTF-8 and emitted verbatim, with no added space or newline.
    An empty String writes nothing and skips the flush.

RETURN VALUE
  AS String
    The line read from standard input, with the trailing LF and any preceding CR
    removed. A line that is empty before its newline returns an empty String.

ERRORS
  77020002 (ErrOutput)
  Raised when writing the prompt to standard output, or flushing it, fails.

  77020003 (ErrEof)
  Raised when standard input reaches end of file before any byte of the line is
  read.

  77020004 (ErrEncoding)
  Raised when the bytes read do not form a valid UTF-8 sequence.

  77020005 (ErrInput)
  Raised when reading from standard input fails for any other reason.

  77010001 (ErrOutOfMemory)
  Raised when the line buffer or the returned String cannot be allocated.

EXAMPLES
  Prompt for a name on the same line and greet the user:

    LET name AS String = io::input("Name: ")
    io::print("Hello, " + name)

  Read a line without a prompt:

    LET line AS String = io::input()
    io::print(line)

SEE ALSO
  io::readLine, io::pollInput, io::print, io::write
