NAME
  print - write text to standard output followed by a newline

SYNOPSIS
  io::print(value AS String) AS Nothing

PACKAGE
  io

IMPORTS
  IMPORT io

DESCRIPTION
  Writes value to the process standard output stream and then appends a single
  newline character. The value is treated as UTF-8 text and is emitted exactly
  as stored, byte for byte, with no further encoding, escaping, or newline
  translation beyond the one trailing newline this function adds. Any valid
  Unicode scalar values are permitted, including multi-byte characters and emoji.

  Only String values are accepted. The function performs no implicit
  conversion, so to print a non-string value you must convert it first, for
  example with toString. An empty String prints nothing but the trailing
  newline.

  Output is directed to whichever destination is bound to standard output. In a
  normal console program this is file descriptor 1; in app mode the same call is
  routed to the application transcript window instead of a file descriptor. The
  write is the function's only side effect. Standard output may be buffered, so
  text is not guaranteed to be visible to an external reader until the buffer is
  drained; use io::flush when prompt visibility is required. To write without a
  trailing newline, use io::write; to send text to standard error instead, use
  io::printError.

PARAMETERS
  value AS String
    The text to write. Interpreted as UTF-8 and emitted unchanged. May be any
    String, including the empty String and strings containing arbitrary Unicode
    characters.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Nothing
    Returns nothing. The function is invoked for its side effect of writing to
    standard output.

ERRORS
  77020002 (ErrOutput)
  Raised when the underlying write to standard output fails, for example when
  the output stream is closed or a host write error occurs.

EXAMPLES
  Print a line of text:

    io::print("Hello")

  Print Unicode text including emoji:

    io::print("é日😀")

  Convert a non-string value before printing:

    io::print(toString(42))

SEE ALSO
  io::write, io::printError, io::flush
