NAME
  clamp - restrict a numeric value to an inclusive range

SYNOPSIS
  math::clamp(value AS Integer, low AS Integer, high AS Integer) AS Integer
  math::clamp(value AS Float, low AS Float, high AS Float) AS Float
  math::clamp(value AS Fixed, low AS Fixed, high AS Fixed) AS Fixed
  math::clamp(values AS List OF Integer, low AS Integer, high AS Integer) AS List OF Integer
  math::clamp(values AS List OF Float, low AS Float, high AS Float) AS List OF Float
  math::clamp(values AS List OF Fixed, low AS Fixed, high AS Fixed) AS List OF Fixed

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Restricts value to the inclusive range [low, high] and returns the result.
  When value is less than low, low is returned; when value is greater than
  high, high is returned; otherwise value itself is returned unchanged. The
  bounds are inclusive, so a value exactly equal to low or high is returned as
  is.

  Before clamping, the two bounds are checked: low must not be greater than
  high. If low exceeds high the range is empty and the function raises an
  error rather than returning a value (see ERRORS).

  The function is overloaded by the exact numeric type of its arguments, and
  the return type always matches that type: three Integers yield an Integer,
  three Floats yield a Float, and three Fixeds yield a Fixed. There is no
  mixed-type overload; all three arguments must be the same numeric type, and
  that type selects which version is called.

  The comparisons are plain ordered comparisons. The Integer and Fixed
  overloads compare the underlying signed 64-bit representations. The Float
  overload performs ordered floating-point comparisons and does no rounding or
  domain checking. Clamping is defined as max(min(value, high), low), so a
  signed-zero bound follows the same rule as math::min and math::max: +0.0 and
  -0.0 compare equal, min prefers -0.0 and max prefers +0.0. This holds for the
  scalar overload and for every element of the array overload, including the
  final odd element of a List whose length is not a multiple of the SIMD lane
  count. The function has no side effects and does not mutate its arguments.

OVERLOADS
  math::clamp(value AS Integer, low AS Integer, high AS Integer) AS Integer
    Clamps an Integer value to an inclusive Integer range.

  math::clamp(value AS Float, low AS Float, high AS Float) AS Float
    Clamps a Float value to an inclusive Float range.

  math::clamp(value AS Fixed, low AS Fixed, high AS Fixed) AS Fixed
    Clamps a Fixed value to an inclusive Fixed range.

  math::clamp(values AS List OF Integer, low AS Integer, high AS Integer) AS List OF Integer
  math::clamp(values AS List OF Float, low AS Float, high AS Float) AS List OF Float
  math::clamp(values AS List OF Fixed, low AS Fixed, high AS Fixed) AS List OF Fixed
    Clamps each element of the List into [low, high] using NEON SIMD and
    returns a new List of the same type and length. It raises the same
    errors as the scalar overload(s) above, but a per-element failure is
    reported once, after every element has been processed (the partially
    built result List is discarded), so the error is deterministic
    regardless of which element triggered it. Each element equals the
    corresponding scalar result exactly.

PARAMETERS
  value AS Integer | Float | Fixed | Money
    The value to restrict. Any value of the chosen numeric type is accepted.

  low AS Integer | Float | Fixed | Money
    The inclusive lower bound of the range, also accepted under the name
    minimum. Must be the same numeric type as value and must not be greater than
    high.

  high AS Integer | Float | Fixed | Money
    The inclusive upper bound of the range, also accepted under the name
    maximum. Must be the same numeric type as value and must not be less than
    low.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Integer | Float | Fixed | Money
    The value clamped into [low, high], in the same numeric type as the
    arguments: low if value is less than low, high if value is greater than
    high, and value itself otherwise. A value equal to either bound is
    returned unchanged.

ERRORS
  77050002 (ErrInvalidArgument)
  Raised when low is greater than high, that is, when the range is empty.

TYPE CHECKING
  All three arguments must share the same numeric type: three Integers, three
  Floats, or three Fixeds. Mixing numeric types, or passing a non-numeric
  value such as a String, Boolean, Byte, record, union, resource, thread,
  function, or lambda, is a compile-time type error.

EXAMPLES
  Clamp an Integer above the range down to the upper bound:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Integer = math::clamp(12, 0, 10)

  Clamp a Float into the unit range:

    IMPORT math

    LET ratio AS Float = math::clamp(1.4, 0.0, 1.0)


SEE ALSO
  math::min, math::max, math::abs
