NAME
  cos - cosine of an angle in radians

SYNOPSIS
  math::cos(value AS Float) AS Float
  math::cos(value AS Fixed) AS Fixed
  math::cos(values AS List OF Float) AS List OF Float

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Returns the trigonometric cosine of value, where value is interpreted as a
  plane angle measured in radians. The result is the ratio of the side adjacent
  to the angle to the hypotenuse of the corresponding right triangle and always
  lies in the closed interval from -1 to 1.

  The function is overloaded by the numeric type of its single argument, and the
  return type always matches that type: a Float yields a Float and a Fixed
  yields a Fixed. There is no mixed-type overload; the argument selects which
  version is called. The Float overload computes the cosine with host
  floating-point arithmetic. The Fixed overload computes the cosine using
  deterministic fixed-point (Q32.32) arithmetic without using host
  floating-point, so the result is identical across targets, and then rounds the
  result to the nearest representable Fixed value.

  Cosine is mathematically defined for every real argument, so there is no
  restricted domain and no finite input is rejected. For a very large magnitude
  the angle's fractional part relative to a full turn becomes less precise, so
  the result loses accuracy, but the call still succeeds. The Float overload
  guards its result against a non-number outcome: a non-finite input such as a
  positive or negative infinity drives the host cosine to NaN, which is reported
  as ErrFloatNan rather than returned. The Fixed overload has no such failure
  path. The function performs no mutation and has no side effects.

OVERLOADS
  math::cos(value AS Float) AS Float
    Computes the cosine of a Float angle and returns it as a Float. Fails with
    ErrFloatNan when the result is not a number, which happens only when value
    is non-finite (an infinity or a NaN); every finite Float input succeeds.

  math::cos(value AS Fixed) AS Fixed
    Computes the cosine of a Fixed angle using deterministic fixed-point
    (Q32.32) arithmetic and returns it as a Fixed, rounding the result to the
    nearest representable Fixed value. Never fails.

  math::cos(values AS List OF Float) AS List OF Float
    Applies cos to each element of a numeric List using NEON SIMD and
    returns a new List of the same type and length. It raises the same
    errors as the scalar overload(s) above, but a per-element failure is
    reported once, after every element has been processed (the partially
    built result List is discarded), so the error is deterministic
    regardless of which element triggered it. Float results come from a
    hand-written NEON f64 kernel (no external math library) within 1 ULP of
    macOS libm; the scalar Float overload shares that kernel.

PARAMETERS
  value AS Float | Fixed
    The angle whose cosine is computed, expressed in radians. Any value of the
    chosen numeric type is accepted; there is no excluded range. A non-finite
    Float angle yields a NaN result and is reported as ErrFloatNan.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Float | Fixed
    The cosine of value, in the same numeric type as value, within the closed
    interval from -1 to 1. The cosine of zero is one.

ERRORS
  77050013 (ErrFloatNan)
  Raised by the Float overload when the computed result is not a number, which
  occurs when value is non-finite, such as the cosine of a positive or negative
  infinity. The Fixed overload never raises this error.

TYPE CHECKING
  The argument must be a single Float or Fixed value. Passing an Integer, or a
  non-numeric value such as a String, Boolean, Byte, record, union, resource,
  thread, function, or lambda, is a compile-time type error.

EXAMPLES
  Cosine of a Float angle in radians:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Float = math::cos(math::pi)

  Cosine of a Fixed angle:

    IMPORT math

    LET wave AS Fixed = math::cos(0.0)


SEE ALSO
  math::sin, math::tan, math::acos, math::atan2
