NAME
  floor - greatest integer less than or equal to a numeric value

SYNOPSIS
  math::floor(value AS Float) AS Integer
  math::floor(value AS Fixed) AS Integer
  math::floor(value AS Money) AS Integer
  math::floor(values AS List OF Float) AS List OF Integer
  math::floor(values AS List OF Fixed) AS List OF Integer

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Returns the greatest integer that is less than or equal to value, rounding
  toward negative infinity. The result is always returned as an Integer,
  regardless of whether the argument is a Float or a Fixed.

  For non-negative values floor truncates the fractional part. For negative
  values that have a fractional part the result is the next whole number toward
  negative infinity, so math::floor(-2.25) is -3, not -2. A value that is
  already a whole number is returned unchanged.

  The function is overloaded by the exact numeric type of value; there is no
  mixed-type overload, and the single argument selects which version is called.
  The Fixed overload uses deterministic fixed-point (Q32.32) arithmetic, so its
  result is identical across all targets.

OVERLOADS
  math::floor(value AS Float) AS Integer
    Rounds the Float value down to the nearest Integer toward negative
    infinity. Fails with ErrOverflow when the floored result lies outside the
    representable Integer range.

  math::floor(value AS Fixed) AS Integer
    Rounds the Fixed (Q32.32) value down to the nearest Integer toward negative
    infinity using deterministic fixed-point arithmetic. Every Fixed value
    floors to an Integer that fits in range, so this overload never overflows.

  math::floor(value AS Money) AS Integer
    Rounds the Money amount down to the nearest Integer at or below it,
    yielding the dimensionless
    count of whole currency units. This is a deliberate dimension exit:
    the Money-ness is dropped, which is why the result is an Integer and
    not a Money. See money::floor for the amount-preserving operation.

  math::floor(values AS List OF Float) AS List OF Integer
  math::floor(values AS List OF Fixed) AS List OF Integer
    Applies floor to each element of a numeric List using NEON SIMD and
    returns a new List OF Integer of the same length. It raises the same
    errors as the scalar overload(s) above, but a per-element failure is
    reported once, after every element has been processed (the partially
    built result List is discarded), so the error is deterministic
    regardless of which element triggered it. Each element equals the
    corresponding scalar result exactly.

PARAMETERS
  value AS Float | Fixed | Money
    The number to round down. Any Float or Fixed is accepted. For the Float
    overload, a value whose floor falls outside Integer range cannot be
    represented and is reported as an overflow.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Integer
    The greatest Integer less than or equal to value. Whole-number inputs
    return their exact integer value; fractional inputs return the next whole
    number toward negative infinity.

ERRORS
  77050010 (ErrOverflow)
  Raised by the Float overload when the floored result lies outside the
  representable Integer range. The Fixed overload does not raise this error,
  because every Fixed value floors to an Integer that fits in range.

TYPE CHECKING
  value must be a single Float or Fixed. Passing any other type, such as an
  Integer, String, Boolean, Byte, record, union, resource, thread, function, or
  lambda, is a compile-time type error.

EXAMPLES
  Floor a positive value:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Integer = math::floor(3.75)

  Floor a negative value toward negative infinity:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Integer = math::floor(-2.25)


SEE ALSO
  math::ceil, math::round, math::abs, math::clamp
