NAME
  rand - uniform pseudo-random value in an inclusive range

SYNOPSIS
  math::rand(min AS Integer, max AS Integer) AS Integer
  math::rand(min AS Money, max AS Money) AS Money

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Returns a uniformly distributed pseudo-random Integer in the inclusive range
  [min, max]. Both endpoints are reachable: when min equals max the only value
  in the range is returned, and otherwise every Integer from min to max
  inclusive is equally likely.

  The draw is taken from the calling thread's PCG64 generator. Each thread owns
  an independent generator and stream: the main thread is seeded from the
  operating system at program startup, and a thread started with thread::start
  receives its own stream seeded from the thread that spawned it. The two
  endpoints may be negative, and the range may span the full signed 64-bit
  Integer domain; when min is the minimum Integer and max is the maximum
  Integer the raw generator output is returned directly. The result is
  unbiased over the inclusive span.

  The call advances the calling thread's generator state as a side effect, so
  successive calls return successive draws from that thread's stream. Call
  math::seed first to reseed the thread and make its subsequent sequence
  reproducible.

  A second overload takes two Money bounds and returns a Money, drawn the same
  way over the inclusive span of the underlying scaled amounts. Both arguments
  must be the same type; there is no mixed Integer/Money form.

  Either argument may be supplied positionally or by name. The first argument
  accepts the name min or minimum, and the second accepts the name max or
  maximum.

PARAMETERS
  min AS Integer | Money
    The inclusive lower bound of the range, also accepted under the name
    minimum. Any value of the chosen type is accepted provided it is not
    greater than max.

  max AS Integer | Money
    The inclusive upper bound of the range, also accepted under the name
    maximum. Must be the same type as min, and not less than it.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Integer | Money
    A pseudo-random Integer x satisfying min <= x <= max, drawn uniformly from
    that inclusive range. When min equals max the returned value is that single
    bound.

ERRORS
  77050002 (ErrInvalidArgument)
  Raised when min is greater than max, that is, when the requested range is
  empty.

EXAMPLES
  Roll a six-sided die:

    IMPORT math

    LET roll AS Integer = math::rand(1, 6)

  Flip a coin as 0 or 1:

    IMPORT math

    LET coin AS Integer = math::rand(0, 1)

  Reproducible sequence by seeding first:

    IMPORT math

    math::seed(12345)
    LET first AS Integer = math::rand(1, 100)

SEE ALSO
  math::seed, math::min, math::max, math::clamp
