NAME
  round - nearest integer with halves away from zero

SYNOPSIS
  math::round(value AS Float) AS Integer
  math::round(value AS Fixed) AS Integer
  math::round(value AS Money) AS Integer
  math::round(values AS List OF Float) AS List OF Integer
  math::round(values AS List OF Fixed) AS List OF Integer

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Returns the integer nearest to value, rounding half away from zero. The result
  is always returned as an Integer, regardless of whether the argument is a Float
  or a Fixed.

  When value lies strictly between two integers, the closer integer is returned.
  When value is exactly halfway between two integers the tie is broken away from
  zero, so math::round(2.5) is 3 and math::round(-2.5) is -3. A value that is
  already a whole number is returned unchanged.

  The function is overloaded by the exact numeric type of value; there is no
  mixed-type overload, and the single argument selects which version is called.
  The Fixed overload uses deterministic fixed-point (Q32.32) arithmetic, so its
  result is identical across all targets.

OVERLOADS
  math::round(value AS Float) AS Integer
    Rounds the Float value to the nearest Integer, breaking ties away from zero.
    Fails with ErrOverflow when the rounded result lies outside the
    representable Integer range.

  math::round(value AS Fixed) AS Integer
    Rounds the Fixed (Q32.32) value to the nearest Integer using deterministic
    fixed-point arithmetic, breaking ties away from zero, so the result is
    identical across targets. Every Fixed value rounds to an Integer that fits
    in range, so this overload never overflows.

  math::round(value AS Money) AS Integer
    Rounds the Money amount to the nearest Integer, breaking ties away from
    zero, yielding the dimensionless
    count of whole currency units. This is a deliberate dimension exit:
    the Money-ness is dropped, which is why the result is an Integer and
    not a Money. See money::round for the amount-preserving operation.

  math::round(values AS List OF Float) AS List OF Integer
  math::round(values AS List OF Fixed) AS List OF Integer
    Applies round to each element of a numeric List using NEON SIMD and
    returns a new List OF Integer of the same length. It raises the same
    errors as the scalar overload(s) above, but a per-element failure is
    reported once, after every element has been processed (the partially
    built result List is discarded), so the error is deterministic
    regardless of which element triggered it. Each element equals the
    corresponding scalar result exactly.

PARAMETERS
  value AS Float | Fixed | Money
    The number to round to the nearest Integer. Any Float, Fixed or Money is
    accepted.
    For the Float overload, a value whose rounded result falls outside Integer
    range cannot be represented and is reported as an overflow.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Integer
    The Integer nearest to value. Whole-number inputs return their exact integer
    value; fractional inputs return the nearer whole number, with exact halves
    rounded away from zero.

ERRORS
  77050010 (ErrOverflow)
  Raised by the Float overload when the rounded result lies outside the
  representable Integer range. The Fixed overload does not raise this error,
  because every Fixed value rounds to an Integer that fits in range.

TYPE CHECKING
  value must be a single Float, Fixed, or Money. Rounding a Money returns an
  Integer — the dimensionless count of whole units, a deliberate exit from the
  Money dimension. Passing any other type, such as an Integer, String, Boolean,
  Byte, record, union, resource, thread, function, or lambda, is a compile-time
  type error.

EXAMPLES
  Round a positive value with a half away from zero:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Integer = math::round(3.5)

  Round a negative value with a half away from zero:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Integer = math::round(-2.5)


SEE ALSO
  math::floor, math::ceil, math::abs, math::clamp
