NAME
  write - perform an HTTP request with a body and return the response

SYNOPSIS
  http::write(url AS net::Url, body AS String) AS Response
  http::write(url AS net::Url, body AS String, headers AS Map OF String TO String) AS Response
  http::write(url AS net::Url, body AS String, headers AS Map OF String TO String, method AS String) AS Response

PACKAGE
  http

IMPORTS
  IMPORT net
  IMPORT http

DESCRIPTION
  write performs one blocking HTTP/1.1 request that carries a body and returns the
  response as an http::Response. The body is sent as UTF-8 bytes with a
  Content-Length header equal to its byte length; a caller-supplied Content-Length
  is ignored to preserve framing. The method defaults to POST and may be any
  body-carrying verb (PUT, PATCH, ...); it is normalized to uppercase before being
  sent. The optional headers map adds or overrides request headers
  case-insensitively (Content-Type is commonly set this way); the reserved framing
  headers Content-Length and Connection are forced and cannot be overridden.

  Transport, parsing, and the returned Response are the same as http::read: the
  connection is opened to url.host on url.port (plaintext via net for http://, TLS
  via tls for https://), the request line and headers are written followed by the
  body, the response is read to end of stream, the connection is closed, and a
  plain Response value is returned. The fragment of the URL is never sent; an empty
  path is normalized to "/".

  The returned Response exposes status, reason, httpVersion, headers, body, and ok
  (TRUE when status is in 200..299). The headers field is a standard
  Map OF String TO String with lowercased field names; read it with the collections
  accessors, e.g. collections::getOr(resp.headers, "content-type", ""). Redirects
  are not followed: a 3xx response is returned with ok FALSE and its location in
  resp.headers.

OVERLOADS
  http::write(url AS net::Url, body AS String) AS Response
    Sends body with the default POST method and no extra headers.

  http::write(url AS net::Url, body AS String, headers AS Map OF String TO String) AS Response
    Sends body with the given request headers, still using the default POST method.

  http::write(url AS net::Url, body AS String, headers AS Map OF String TO String, method AS String) AS Response
    Sends body with the given headers using an explicit body-carrying method.

PARAMETERS
  url AS net::Url
    The target URL, as produced by net::toUrl. Its scheme selects the transport
    (http:// uses net, https:// uses tls), and its host, port, path, and query
    determine the connection and request target. Any fragment is ignored and an
    empty path is sent as "/".

  body AS String
    The request payload. It is sent verbatim as UTF-8 bytes, and its byte length
    becomes the Content-Length header.

  headers AS Map OF String TO String
    Optional request headers added or overridden case-insensitively. Defaults to an
    empty map. The Content-Length and Connection headers it contains are ignored
    because they are forced by the client.

  method AS String
    Optional request verb. Defaults to "POST" and is uppercased before sending. It
    must be non-empty and contain no space character.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Response
    The parsed HTTP response, a plain copyable record with fields status (Integer),
    reason (String), httpVersion (String), headers (Map OF String TO String, field
    names lowercased), body (String), and ok (Boolean, TRUE for a 2xx status). A 3xx
    response is returned normally with ok FALSE; redirects are not followed.

ERRORS
  77050002 (ErrInvalidArgument)
  Raised when method is empty or contains a space character.

  77050003 (ErrInvalidFormat)
  Raised when the response status line, header block, or chunked framing is
  malformed.

  77050010 (ErrOverflow)
  Raised when the response exceeds the internal 64 MiB size cap.

  Connect, read, write, DNS, and TLS failures are propagated unchanged from net
  and tls.

EXAMPLES
  POST a JSON body with a content type:

    IMPORT net
    IMPORT http

    LET ct = Map OF String TO String { "Content-Type" := "application/json" }
    LET r = http::write(net::toUrl("http://example.com/items"), "{\"name\":\"a\"}", ct)
    io::print(toString(r.status))

  PUT a body with an explicit method, then check success:

    IMPORT net
    IMPORT http

    LET r = http::write(net::toUrl("http://example.com/item/1"), "updated", {}, "PUT")
    IF r.ok THEN
      io::print("saved")
    END IF

SEE ALSO
  http::read, net::toUrl, collections::getOr
