NAME
  abs - absolute value for Integer, Float, and Fixed

SYNOPSIS
  math::abs(value AS Integer) AS Integer
  math::abs(value AS Float) AS Float
  math::abs(value AS Fixed) AS Fixed

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Returns the absolute value of value, that is, its magnitude with any
  negative sign removed. A non-negative argument is returned unchanged; a
  negative argument is returned negated.

  The function is overloaded by the exact numeric type of value, and the
  return type always matches that type: an Integer yields an Integer, a Float
  yields a Float, and a Fixed yields a Fixed. There is no mixed-type overload;
  the single argument selects which version is called.

  The Integer and Fixed overloads operate on the underlying signed 64-bit
  representation, whose negative range extends one step further than its
  positive range. Negating the minimum representable value therefore has no
  positive counterpart and is reported as an overflow rather than silently
  wrapping.

  The Float overload clears the sign bit of the value and so never overflows.
  It does not perform any rounding or domain checking.

OVERLOADS
  math::abs(value AS Integer) AS Integer
    Returns the magnitude of an Integer. Fails with ErrOverflow when value is
    the minimum Integer.

  math::abs(value AS Float) AS Float
    Returns the magnitude of a Float by clearing its sign. Never fails.

  math::abs(value AS Fixed) AS Fixed
    Returns the magnitude of a Fixed. Fails with ErrOverflow when value is the
    minimum Fixed.

PARAMETERS
  value AS Integer | Float | Fixed
    The number whose absolute value is computed. Any value of the chosen
    numeric type is accepted, except the minimum Integer or Fixed, whose
    magnitude cannot be represented.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Integer | Float | Fixed
    The non-negative magnitude of value, in the same numeric type as value.
    Zero (including negative zero for Float) returns zero.

ERRORS
  77050010 (ErrOverflow)
  Raised by the Integer and Fixed overloads when value is the minimum
  representable value of that type, whose magnitude has no positive
  counterpart. The Float overload does not raise this error.

TYPE CHECKING
  The argument must be a single numeric value: an Integer, a Float, or a
  Fixed. Passing a non-numeric value such as a String, Boolean, Byte, record,
  union, resource, thread, function, or lambda is a compile-time type error.

EXAMPLES
  Absolute value of a negative Integer:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Integer = math::abs(-4)

  Absolute value of a negative Float:

    IMPORT math

    LET distance AS Float = math::abs(-3.5)

NOTES
  Array (List) overload. In addition to the scalar forms above, math::abs
  also accepts numeric Lists (List OF Integer, List OF Float, or List OF
  Fixed), applying abs to every element with NEON SIMD and returning a new
  List of the same numeric type. A per-element error is reported once, after
  every element has been processed, so it is deterministic regardless of
  which element triggered it; the partially built result List is then
  discarded. The array result is exact: each element equals the
  corresponding scalar overload. See `mfb spec language builtin-functions`
  for the full array-overload table.

SEE ALSO
  math::min, math::max, math::clamp, math::sqrt
