NAME
  acos - arc cosine in radians

SYNOPSIS
  math::acos(value AS Float) AS Float
  math::acos(value AS Fixed) AS Fixed

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Returns the arc cosine of value, the angle in radians whose cosine is value.
  The result is the inverse of math::cos restricted to a single branch and
  always lies in the closed interval from 0 to pi.

  The function is overloaded by the numeric type of its single argument, and
  the return type always matches that type: a Float yields a Float and a Fixed
  yields a Fixed. There is no mixed-type overload; the argument selects which
  version is called. The Fixed overload computes the angle using deterministic
  fixed-point (Q32.32) arithmetic via acos(x) = atan2(sqrt(1 - x^2), x) so the
  result is identical across targets, then rounds it to the nearest
  representable Fixed value.

  The arc cosine is mathematically defined only on the domain from -1 to 1.
  Both overloads reject any value outside that closed interval; see ERRORS.
  At the endpoints, acos(-1) is pi and acos(1) is zero, and acos(0) is pi/2.
  The function performs no mutation and has no side effects.

OVERLOADS
  math::acos(value AS Float) AS Float
    Computes the arc cosine of a Float using floating-point arithmetic and
    returns it as a Float. Fails with ErrFloatDomain when value lies outside
    the closed interval from -1.0 to 1.0.

  math::acos(value AS Fixed) AS Fixed
    Computes the arc cosine of a Fixed using deterministic fixed-point (Q32.32)
    arithmetic via acos(x) = atan2(sqrt(1 - x^2), x), so the result is
    identical across targets, rounding the result to the nearest representable
    Fixed value. Fails with ErrInvalidArgument when value lies outside the
    closed interval from -1.0 to 1.0.

PARAMETERS
  value AS Float | Fixed
    The cosine value whose angle is computed. Must lie in the closed interval
    from -1 to 1; values outside this domain are rejected.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Float | Fixed
    The arc cosine of value, in radians, in the same numeric type as value,
    within the closed interval from 0 to pi. The arc cosine of zero is pi/2,
    of -1 is pi, and of 1 is zero.

ERRORS
  77050012 (ErrFloatDomain)
  Raised by the Float overload when value lies outside the closed domain from
  -1.0 to 1.0.

  77050002 (ErrInvalidArgument)
  Raised by the Fixed overload when value lies outside the closed domain from
  -1.0 to 1.0.

TYPE CHECKING
  The argument must be a single Float or Fixed value. Passing an Integer, or a
  non-numeric value such as a String, Boolean, Byte, record, union, resource,
  thread, function, or lambda, is a compile-time type error.

EXAMPLES
  Arc cosine of a Float value in radians:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Float = math::acos(0.5)

  Arc cosine of a Fixed value at the lower domain endpoint:

    IMPORT math

    LET scaled AS Fixed = math::acos(1.0)

NOTES
  Array (List) overload. In addition to the scalar forms above, math::acos
  also accepts numeric Lists (List OF Integer, List OF Float, or List OF
  Fixed), applying acos to every element with NEON SIMD and returning a new
  List of the same numeric type. A per-element error is reported once, after
  every element has been processed, so it is deterministic regardless of
  which element triggered it; the partially built result List is then
  discarded. Float array results come from a hand-written NEON f64 kernel
  (no external math library) within 1 ULP of macOS libm; the scalar Float
  overload shares that kernel, so math::acos(x) and math::acos([x])[0] are
  bit-identical. See `mfb spec language builtin-functions` for the full
  array-overload table.

SEE ALSO
  math::asin, math::atan, math::atan2, math::cos
