NAME
  atan2 - two-argument arc tangent in radians

SYNOPSIS
  math::atan2(y AS Float, x AS Float) AS Float
  math::atan2(y AS Fixed, x AS Fixed) AS Fixed
  math::atan2(y AS List OF Float, x AS List OF Float) AS List OF Float

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Returns the angle in radians of the vector whose horizontal component is x
  and whose vertical component is y, following the standard atan2(y, x)
  convention. Unlike a single-argument arc tangent of y / x, atan2 inspects the
  signs of both arguments to place the angle in the correct quadrant, so the
  result spans the full circle and lies in the range from -pi (exclusive) to pi
  (inclusive).

  The function is overloaded by the numeric type of its arguments, and the
  return type always matches that type: two Floats yield a Float and two Fixeds
  yield a Fixed. Both arguments must share the same type; there is no mixed-type
  or Integer overload. The first argument is the vertical component and the
  second is the horizontal component; the argument types select which overload
  is called.

  The Float overload evaluates the angle with a hand-written NEON f64 kernel
  (no external math library), within 1 ULP of macOS libm and identical on every
  target. The Fixed overload computes the angle using deterministic fixed-point (Q32.32)
  arithmetic without host floating-point, so the result is identical across
  targets, then rounds it to the nearest representable Fixed value.

  The arc tangent is defined for every pair of finite arguments, including the
  origin (0, 0), and never rejects a finite input. The signs of the arguments
  determine the quadrant: atan2 of a positive y is positive, atan2 of a negative
  y is negative, atan2(0, x) is zero when x is positive and pi when x is
  negative. The result is always bounded within -pi to pi, so it never tends to
  an infinity; only a NaN Float argument drives the host arc tangent to a NaN
  result, which the Float overload reports as ErrFloatNan rather than returning.
  The Fixed overload has no such failure path. The function performs no mutation
  and has no side effects.

OVERLOADS
  math::atan2(y AS Float, x AS Float) AS Float
    Computes the arc tangent using floating-point arithmetic and returns it as
    a Float. Fails with ErrFloatNan when the result is not a number, which
    happens only when y or x is itself a NaN; every other pair of Float
    arguments, including the origin (0, 0), succeeds.

  math::atan2(y AS Fixed, x AS Fixed) AS Fixed
    Computes the arc tangent using deterministic fixed-point (Q32.32)
    arithmetic, so the result is identical across targets, rounding the result
    to the nearest representable Fixed value. Never fails.

  math::atan2(y AS List OF Float, x AS List OF Float) AS List OF Float
    Applies atan2 element-by-element across the two Lists using NEON SIMD
    and returns a new List of the same type and length. Both input Lists
    must have the same length. It raises the same errors as the scalar
    overload(s) above, but a per-element failure is reported once, after
    every element has been processed (the partially built result List is
    discarded), so the error is deterministic regardless of which element
    triggered it. Float results come from a hand-written NEON f64 kernel (no
    external math library) within 1 ULP of macOS libm; the scalar Float
    overload shares that kernel.

PARAMETERS
  y AS Float | Fixed
    The vertical component of the vector. Any finite value of the chosen
    numeric type is accepted; there is no restricted domain. A NaN Float
    argument yields a NaN result and is reported as ErrFloatNan.

  x AS Float | Fixed
    The horizontal component of the vector. Must match the numeric type of y.
    Any finite value is accepted, and its sign selects the half-plane in which
    the angle is measured. A NaN Float argument yields a NaN result and is
    reported as ErrFloatNan.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Float | Fixed
    The angle in radians of the vector (x, y), in the same numeric type as the
    arguments, in the range from -pi (exclusive) to pi (inclusive). atan2(0, 0)
    is zero, and the result uses the signs of both arguments to select the
    quadrant. The Fixed overload rounds the result to the nearest representable
    Fixed value.

ERRORS
  77050013 (ErrFloatNan)
  Raised by the Float overload when the computed result is not a number, which
  occurs only when y or x is itself a NaN. The Fixed overload never raises this
  error.

TYPE CHECKING
  y and x must both be Float or both be Fixed. Calling math::atan2 with mixed
  numeric types, with an Integer, or with any non-numeric value such as a
  String, Boolean, Byte, record, union, resource, thread, function, or lambda
  is a compile-time type error.

EXAMPLES
  Angle of a Float vector in radians:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Float = math::atan2(1.0, 1.0)

  Angle of a Fixed vector on the negative horizontal axis:

    IMPORT math

    LET scaled AS Fixed = math::atan2(0.0, -1.0)


SEE ALSO
  math::atan, math::asin, math::acos, math::tan
