NAME
  atan - arc tangent in radians

SYNOPSIS
  math::atan(value AS Float) AS Float
  math::atan(value AS Fixed) AS Fixed

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Returns the arc tangent of value, the angle in radians whose tangent is
  value. The result is the inverse of math::tan restricted to a single branch
  and always lies in the open interval from -pi/2 to pi/2.

  The function is overloaded by the numeric type of its single argument, and
  the return type always matches that type: a Float yields a Float and a Fixed
  yields a Fixed. There is no mixed-type overload; the argument selects which
  version is called. The Float overload computes the angle with host
  floating-point arithmetic. The Fixed overload computes the angle using
  deterministic fixed-point (Q32.32) arithmetic via atan(value) =
  atan2(value, 1), so the result is identical across targets, then rounds it to
  the nearest representable Fixed value.

  The arc tangent is mathematically defined for every real number, so there is
  no restricted domain and no finite input is rejected. As the magnitude of
  value grows without bound the result approaches -pi/2 or pi/2 but never
  reaches it, and atan(0) is zero. A non-finite Float infinity is accepted and
  produces -pi/2 or pi/2; only a NaN argument drives the host arc tangent to a
  NaN result, which the Float overload reports as ErrFloatNan rather than
  returning. The Fixed overload has no such failure path. The function performs
  no mutation and has no side effects.

OVERLOADS
  math::atan(value AS Float) AS Float
    Computes the arc tangent of a Float using floating-point arithmetic and
    returns it as a Float. Fails with ErrFloatNan when the result is not a
    number, which happens only when value is itself a NaN; every other Float
    input, including a positive or negative infinity, succeeds.

  math::atan(value AS Fixed) AS Fixed
    Computes the arc tangent of a Fixed using deterministic fixed-point
    (Q32.32) arithmetic via atan(value) = atan2(value, 1), so the result is
    identical across targets, rounding the result to the nearest representable
    Fixed value. Never fails.

PARAMETERS
  value AS Float | Fixed
    The tangent value whose angle is computed. Any finite numeric value is
    accepted; there is no restricted domain. A NaN Float argument yields a NaN
    result and is reported as ErrFloatNan.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Float | Fixed
    The arc tangent of value, in radians, in the same numeric type as value,
    within the open interval from -pi/2 to pi/2. The arc tangent of zero is
    zero, and the result tends toward -pi/2 or pi/2 as value tends toward
    negative or positive infinity.

ERRORS
  77050013 (ErrFloatNan)
  Raised by the Float overload when the computed result is not a number, which
  occurs only when value is itself a NaN. The Fixed overload never raises this
  error.

TYPE CHECKING
  The argument must be a single Float or Fixed value. Passing an Integer, or a
  non-numeric value such as a String, Boolean, Byte, record, union, resource,
  thread, function, or lambda, is a compile-time type error.

EXAMPLES
  Arc tangent of a Float value in radians:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Float = math::atan(1.0)

  Arc tangent of a Fixed value at the origin:

    IMPORT math

    LET scaled AS Fixed = math::atan(0.0)

NOTES
  Array (List) overload. In addition to the scalar forms above, math::atan
  also accepts numeric Lists (List OF Integer, List OF Float, or List OF
  Fixed), applying atan to every element with NEON SIMD and returning a new
  List of the same numeric type. A per-element error is reported once, after
  every element has been processed, so it is deterministic regardless of
  which element triggered it; the partially built result List is then
  discarded. Float array results come from a hand-written NEON f64 kernel
  (no external math library) within 1 ULP of macOS libm; the scalar Float
  overload shares that kernel, so math::atan(x) and math::atan([x])[0] are
  bit-identical. See `mfb spec language builtin-functions` for the full
  array-overload table.

SEE ALSO
  math::asin, math::acos, math::atan2, math::tan
