NAME
  ceil - smallest integer greater than or equal to a numeric value

SYNOPSIS
  math::ceil(value AS Float) AS Integer
  math::ceil(value AS Fixed) AS Integer
  math::ceil(values AS List OF Float) AS List OF Integer
  math::ceil(values AS List OF Fixed) AS List OF Integer

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Returns the smallest integer that is greater than or equal to value, rounding
  toward positive infinity. The result is always returned as an Integer,
  regardless of whether the argument is a Float or a Fixed.

  For values that have a fractional part the result is the next whole number
  toward positive infinity, so math::ceil(3.25) is 4 and math::ceil(-2.25) is
  -2, not -3. A value that is already a whole number is returned unchanged.

  The function is overloaded by the exact numeric type of value; there is no
  mixed-type overload, and the single argument selects which version is called.
  The Fixed overload uses deterministic fixed-point (Q32.32) arithmetic, so its
  result is identical across all targets.

  For the Float overload a non-finite input (NaN or positive/negative infinity)
  has no representable Integer ceiling and is reported as an overflow.

OVERLOADS
  math::ceil(value AS Float) AS Integer
    Rounds the Float value up to the nearest Integer toward positive infinity.
    Fails with ErrOverflow when the ceiled result lies outside the
    representable Integer range, including a non-finite (NaN or infinite)
    input.

  math::ceil(value AS Fixed) AS Integer
    Rounds the Fixed (Q32.32) value up to the nearest Integer toward positive
    infinity using deterministic fixed-point arithmetic. Every Fixed value
    ceils to an Integer that fits in range, so this overload never overflows.

  math::ceil(values AS List OF Float) AS List OF Integer
  math::ceil(values AS List OF Fixed) AS List OF Integer
    Applies ceil to each element of a numeric List using NEON SIMD and
    returns a new List OF Integer of the same length. It raises the same
    errors as the scalar overload(s) above, but a per-element failure is
    reported once, after every element has been processed (the partially
    built result List is discarded), so the error is deterministic
    regardless of which element triggered it. Each element equals the
    corresponding scalar result exactly.

PARAMETERS
  value AS Float | Fixed
    The number to round up. Any Float or Fixed is accepted. For the Float
    overload, a value whose ceiling falls outside Integer range cannot be
    represented and is reported as an overflow.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Integer
    The smallest Integer greater than or equal to value. Whole-number inputs
    return their exact integer value; fractional inputs return the next whole
    number toward positive infinity.

ERRORS
  77050010 (ErrOverflow)
  Raised by the Float overload when the ceiled result lies outside the
  representable Integer range, or when value is non-finite (NaN or positive or
  negative infinity). The Fixed overload does not raise this error, because
  every Fixed value ceils to an Integer that fits in range.

TYPE CHECKING
  value must be a single Float or Fixed. Passing any other type, such as an
  Integer, String, Boolean, Byte, record, union, resource, thread, function, or
  lambda, is a compile-time type error.

EXAMPLES
  Ceil a positive value:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Integer = math::ceil(3.25)

  Ceil a negative value toward positive infinity:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Integer = math::ceil(-2.25)


SEE ALSO
  math::floor, math::round, math::abs, math::clamp
