NAME
  clamp - restrict a numeric value to an inclusive range

SYNOPSIS
  math::clamp(value AS Integer, low AS Integer, high AS Integer) AS Integer
  math::clamp(value AS Float, low AS Float, high AS Float) AS Float
  math::clamp(value AS Fixed, low AS Fixed, high AS Fixed) AS Fixed

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Restricts value to the inclusive range [low, high] and returns the result.
  When value is less than low, low is returned; when value is greater than
  high, high is returned; otherwise value itself is returned unchanged. The
  bounds are inclusive, so a value exactly equal to low or high is returned as
  is.

  Before clamping, the two bounds are checked: low must not be greater than
  high. If low exceeds high the range is empty and the function raises an
  error rather than returning a value (see ERRORS).

  The function is overloaded by the exact numeric type of its arguments, and
  the return type always matches that type: three Integers yield an Integer,
  three Floats yield a Float, and three Fixeds yield a Fixed. There is no
  mixed-type overload; all three arguments must be the same numeric type, and
  that type selects which version is called.

  The comparisons are plain ordered comparisons. The Integer and Fixed
  overloads compare the underlying signed 64-bit representations. The Float
  overload performs ordered floating-point comparisons and does no rounding or
  domain checking. The function has no side effects and does not mutate its
  arguments.

OVERLOADS
  math::clamp(value AS Integer, low AS Integer, high AS Integer) AS Integer
    Clamps an Integer value to an inclusive Integer range.

  math::clamp(value AS Float, low AS Float, high AS Float) AS Float
    Clamps a Float value to an inclusive Float range.

  math::clamp(value AS Fixed, low AS Fixed, high AS Fixed) AS Fixed
    Clamps a Fixed value to an inclusive Fixed range.

PARAMETERS
  value AS Integer | Float | Fixed
    The value to restrict. Any value of the chosen numeric type is accepted.

  low AS Integer | Float | Fixed
    The inclusive lower bound of the range. Must be the same numeric type as
    value and must not be greater than high.

  high AS Integer | Float | Fixed
    The inclusive upper bound of the range. Must be the same numeric type as
    value and must not be less than low.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Integer | Float | Fixed
    The value clamped into [low, high], in the same numeric type as the
    arguments: low if value is less than low, high if value is greater than
    high, and value itself otherwise. A value equal to either bound is
    returned unchanged.

ERRORS
  77050002 (ErrInvalidArgument)
  Raised when low is greater than high, that is, when the range is empty.

TYPE CHECKING
  All three arguments must share the same numeric type: three Integers, three
  Floats, or three Fixeds. Mixing numeric types, or passing a non-numeric
  value such as a String, Boolean, Byte, record, union, resource, thread,
  function, or lambda, is a compile-time type error.

EXAMPLES
  Clamp an Integer above the range down to the upper bound:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Integer = math::clamp(12, 0, 10)

  Clamp a Float into the unit range:

    IMPORT math

    LET ratio AS Float = math::clamp(1.4, 0.0, 1.0)

SEE ALSO
  math::min, math::max, math::abs
