NAME
  cos - cosine of an angle in radians

SYNOPSIS
  math::cos(value AS Float) AS Float
  math::cos(value AS Fixed) AS Fixed

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Returns the trigonometric cosine of value, where value is interpreted as a
  plane angle measured in radians. The result is the ratio of the side adjacent
  to the angle to the hypotenuse of the corresponding right triangle and always
  lies in the closed interval from -1 to 1.

  The function is overloaded by the numeric type of its single argument, and the
  return type always matches that type: a Float yields a Float and a Fixed
  yields a Fixed. There is no mixed-type overload; the argument selects which
  version is called. The Fixed overload computes the cosine using deterministic
  fixed-point (Q32.32) arithmetic and rounds the result to the nearest
  representable Fixed value.

  Cosine is mathematically defined for every real argument, so there is no
  restricted domain and no input is rejected. For a very large magnitude the
  angle's fractional part relative to a full turn becomes less precise, so the
  result loses accuracy, but the call still succeeds. The function performs no
  mutation and has no side effects.

OVERLOADS
  math::cos(value AS Float) AS Float
    Computes the cosine of a Float angle and returns it as a Float. Never fails.

  math::cos(value AS Fixed) AS Fixed
    Computes the cosine of a Fixed angle and returns it as a Fixed, rounding the
    result to the nearest representable Fixed value. Never fails.

PARAMETERS
  value AS Float | Fixed
    The angle whose cosine is computed, expressed in radians. Any value of the
    chosen numeric type is accepted; there is no excluded range.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Float | Fixed
    The cosine of value, in the same numeric type as value, within the closed
    interval from -1 to 1. The cosine of zero is one.

ERRORS
  No errors.

TYPE CHECKING
  The argument must be a single Float or Fixed value. Passing an Integer, or a
  non-numeric value such as a String, Boolean, Byte, record, union, resource,
  thread, function, or lambda, is a compile-time type error.

EXAMPLES
  Cosine of a Float angle in radians:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Float = math::cos(math::pi)

  Cosine of a Fixed angle:

    IMPORT math

    LET wave AS Fixed = math::cos(0.0)

SEE ALSO
  math::sin, math::tan, math::acos, math::atan2
