NAME
  exp - e raised to a numeric power

SYNOPSIS
  math::exp(value AS Float) AS Float
  math::exp(value AS Fixed) AS Fixed
  math::exp(values AS List OF Float) AS List OF Float

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Returns e (Euler's number, approximately 2.718281828) raised to the power
  value, the inverse of the natural logarithm. The function is overloaded by
  the exact numeric type of value, and the return type always matches that
  type: a Float yields a Float and a Fixed yields a Fixed. There is no mixed
  or Integer overload; the single argument selects which version is called.

  exp(0) is one in both overloads, exp(1) is e, and a negative value produces
  a positive fraction between zero and one. The function grows without bound
  as value increases, so a sufficiently large positive value drives the result
  past the representable range of the chosen numeric type and is reported as an
  error rather than wrapping or saturating silently.

  The Float overload computes the result with host floating-point arithmetic by
  calling the platform exp routine, then inspects the returned bits: a result
  that has overflowed to infinity or that is NaN is rejected. The Fixed overload
  computes a deterministic raw Q32.32 exponential without using host
  floating-point. It range-reduces value by the nearest integer multiple of
  ln 2, evaluates a Taylor series on the remainder, and recombines the exponent
  by scaling by a power of two; this makes the result identical across targets,
  rounded to the nearest representable Fixed value, and traps if recombining the
  exponent leaves Fixed range.

OVERLOADS
  math::exp(value AS Float) AS Float
    Computes e raised to value using floating-point arithmetic. Fails with
    ErrFloatInf when the result overflows to infinity, and with ErrFloatNan
    when the result is NaN.

  math::exp(value AS Fixed) AS Fixed
    Computes e raised to value using deterministic fixed-point (Q32.32)
    arithmetic, so the result is identical across targets, and rounds to the
    nearest representable Fixed value. Fails with ErrOverflow when the result
    is outside Fixed range.

  math::exp(values AS List OF Float) AS List OF Float
    Applies exp to each element of a numeric List using NEON SIMD and
    returns a new List of the same type and length. It raises the same
    errors as the scalar overload(s) above, but a per-element failure is
    reported once, after every element has been processed (the partially
    built result List is discarded), so the error is deterministic
    regardless of which element triggered it. Float results come from a
    hand-written NEON f64 kernel (no external math library) within 1 ULP of
    macOS libm; the scalar Float overload shares that kernel.

PARAMETERS
  value AS Float | Fixed
    The exponent to raise e to, expressed in the same numeric type as the
    desired result. Any finite value of the chosen type is accepted; large
    positive values whose result exceeds the type's range produce an error.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Float | Fixed
    e raised to value, in the same numeric type as value. A value of zero
    returns one, and negative values return a positive result less than one.

ERRORS
  77050014 (ErrFloatInf)
  Raised by the Float overload when the result overflows to positive infinity,
  which happens for sufficiently large positive value.

  77050013 (ErrFloatNan)
  Raised by the Float overload when the result is NaN, which happens when value
  is itself NaN.

  77050010 (ErrOverflow)
  Raised by the Fixed overload when the result is outside the representable
  Fixed range.

TYPE CHECKING
  The argument must be a single Float or Fixed. Passing an Integer or any
  non-numeric value such as a String, Boolean, Byte, record, union, resource,
  thread, function, or lambda is a compile-time type error.

EXAMPLES
  e raised to a Float power:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Float = math::exp(1.0)

  e raised to a Fixed power, deterministically:

    IMPORT math

    LET growth AS Fixed = math::exp(2.0)


SEE ALSO
  math::log, math::log10, math::pow, math::sqrt
