NAME
  floor - greatest integer less than or equal to a numeric value

SYNOPSIS
  math::floor(value AS Float) AS Integer
  math::floor(value AS Fixed) AS Integer

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Returns the greatest integer that is less than or equal to value, rounding
  toward negative infinity. The result is always returned as an Integer,
  regardless of whether the argument is a Float or a Fixed.

  For non-negative values floor truncates the fractional part. For negative
  values that have a fractional part the result is the next whole number toward
  negative infinity, so math::floor(-2.25) is -3, not -2. A value that is
  already a whole number is returned unchanged.

  The function is overloaded by the exact numeric type of value; there is no
  mixed-type overload, and the single argument selects which version is called.
  The Fixed overload uses deterministic fixed-point (Q32.32) arithmetic, so its
  result is identical across all targets.

OVERLOADS
  math::floor(value AS Float) AS Integer
    Rounds the Float value down to the nearest Integer toward negative
    infinity. Fails with ErrOverflow when the floored result lies outside the
    representable Integer range.

  math::floor(value AS Fixed) AS Integer
    Rounds the Fixed (Q32.32) value down to the nearest Integer toward negative
    infinity using deterministic fixed-point arithmetic. Every Fixed value
    floors to an Integer that fits in range, so this overload never overflows.

PARAMETERS
  value AS Float | Fixed
    The number to round down. Any Float or Fixed is accepted. For the Float
    overload, a value whose floor falls outside Integer range cannot be
    represented and is reported as an overflow.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Integer
    The greatest Integer less than or equal to value. Whole-number inputs
    return their exact integer value; fractional inputs return the next whole
    number toward negative infinity.

ERRORS
  77050010 (ErrOverflow)
  Raised by the Float overload when the floored result lies outside the
  representable Integer range. The Fixed overload does not raise this error,
  because every Fixed value floors to an Integer that fits in range.

TYPE CHECKING
  value must be a single Float or Fixed. Passing any other type, such as an
  Integer, String, Boolean, Byte, record, union, resource, thread, function, or
  lambda, is a compile-time type error.

EXAMPLES
  Floor a positive value:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Integer = math::floor(3.75)

  Floor a negative value toward negative infinity:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Integer = math::floor(-2.25)

NOTES
  Array (List) overload. In addition to the scalar forms above, math::floor
  also accepts numeric Lists (List OF Integer, List OF Float, or List OF
  Fixed), applying floor to every element with NEON SIMD and returning a new
  List of the same numeric type. A per-element error is reported once, after
  every element has been processed, so it is deterministic regardless of
  which element triggered it; the partially built result List is then
  discarded. The array result is exact: each element equals the
  corresponding scalar overload. See `mfb spec language builtin-functions`
  for the full array-overload table.

SEE ALSO
  math::ceil, math::round, math::abs, math::clamp
