NAME
  max - larger of two numeric values

SYNOPSIS
  math::max(a AS Integer, b AS Integer) AS Integer
  math::max(a AS Float, b AS Float) AS Float
  math::max(a AS Fixed, b AS Fixed) AS Fixed
  math::max(a AS List OF Integer, b AS List OF Integer) AS List OF Integer
  math::max(a AS List OF Float, b AS List OF Float) AS List OF Float
  math::max(a AS List OF Fixed, b AS List OF Fixed) AS List OF Fixed

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Returns the larger of the two arguments a and b. When the arguments compare
  equal, that common value is returned.

  The function is overloaded by the exact numeric type of its arguments, and
  the return type always matches that type: two Integers yield an Integer, two
  Floats yield a Float, and two Fixeds yield a Fixed. There is no mixed-type
  overload; both arguments must be the same numeric type, and that type
  selects which version is called.

  The comparison is a plain ordered comparison of the two values. The Integer
  and Fixed overloads compare the underlying signed 64-bit representations.
  The Float overload performs an ordered floating-point comparison and does no
  rounding or domain checking. The function never overflows and has no side
  effects.

OVERLOADS
  math::max(a AS Integer, b AS Integer) AS Integer
    Returns the larger of two Integers.

  math::max(a AS Float, b AS Float) AS Float
    Returns the larger of two Floats.

  math::max(a AS Fixed, b AS Fixed) AS Fixed
    Returns the larger of two Fixeds.

  math::max(a AS List OF T, b AS List OF T) AS List OF T  (T = Integer | Float | Fixed)
    Applies max element-by-element across the two Lists using NEON SIMD and
    returns a new List of the same type and length. Both input Lists must
    have the same length. It raises the same errors as the scalar
    overload(s) above, but a per-element failure is reported once, after
    every element has been processed (the partially built result List is
    discarded), so the error is deterministic regardless of which element
    triggered it. Each element equals the corresponding scalar result
    exactly.

PARAMETERS
  a AS Integer | Float | Fixed
    The first value to compare. Any value of the chosen numeric type is
    accepted.

  b AS Integer | Float | Fixed
    The second value to compare. Must be the same numeric type as a. Any value
    of that type is accepted.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Integer | Float | Fixed
    The larger of a and b, in the same numeric type as the arguments. When a
    and b are equal, that value is returned.

ERRORS
  No errors.

TYPE CHECKING
  Both arguments must share the same numeric type: two Integers, two Floats,
  or two Fixeds. Mixing numeric types, or passing a non-numeric value such as
  a String, Boolean, Byte, record, union, resource, thread, function, or
  lambda, is a compile-time type error.

EXAMPLES
  Larger of two Integers:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Integer = math::max(2, 4)

  Larger of two Floats:

    IMPORT math

    LET upper AS Float = math::max(-3.5, 1.0)


SEE ALSO
  math::min, math::clamp, math::abs
