NAME
  min - smaller of two numeric values

SYNOPSIS
  math::min(a AS Integer, b AS Integer) AS Integer
  math::min(a AS Float, b AS Float) AS Float
  math::min(a AS Fixed, b AS Fixed) AS Fixed

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Returns the smaller of the two arguments a and b. When the arguments compare
  equal, that common value is returned.

  The function is overloaded by the exact numeric type of its arguments, and
  the return type always matches that type: two Integers yield an Integer, two
  Floats yield a Float, and two Fixeds yield a Fixed. There is no mixed-type
  overload; both arguments must be the same numeric type, and that type
  selects which version is called.

  The comparison is a plain ordered comparison of the two values. The Integer
  and Fixed overloads compare the underlying signed 64-bit representations.
  The Float overload performs an ordered floating-point comparison and does no
  rounding or domain checking. The function never overflows and has no side
  effects.

OVERLOADS
  math::min(a AS Integer, b AS Integer) AS Integer
    Returns the smaller of two Integers.

  math::min(a AS Float, b AS Float) AS Float
    Returns the smaller of two Floats.

  math::min(a AS Fixed, b AS Fixed) AS Fixed
    Returns the smaller of two Fixeds.

PARAMETERS
  a AS Integer | Float | Fixed
    The first value to compare. Any value of the chosen numeric type is
    accepted.

  b AS Integer | Float | Fixed
    The second value to compare. Must be the same numeric type as a. Any value
    of that type is accepted.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Integer | Float | Fixed
    The smaller of a and b, in the same numeric type as the arguments. When a
    and b are equal, that value is returned.

ERRORS
  No errors.

TYPE CHECKING
  Both arguments must share the same numeric type: two Integers, two Floats,
  or two Fixeds. Mixing numeric types, or passing a non-numeric value such as
  a String, Boolean, Byte, record, union, resource, thread, function, or
  lambda, is a compile-time type error.

EXAMPLES
  Smaller of two Integers:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Integer = math::min(2, 4)

  Smaller of two Floats:

    IMPORT math

    LET lower AS Float = math::min(-3.5, 1.0)

NOTES
  Array (List) overload. In addition to the scalar forms above, math::min
  also accepts numeric Lists (List OF Integer, List OF Float, or List OF
  Fixed), applying min to every element with NEON SIMD and returning a new
  List of the same numeric type. A per-element error is reported once, after
  every element has been processed, so it is deterministic regardless of
  which element triggered it; the partially built result List is then
  discarded. The array result is exact: each element equals the
  corresponding scalar overload. See `mfb spec language builtin-functions`
  for the full array-overload table.

SEE ALSO
  math::max, math::clamp, math::abs
