NAME
  pow - raise a numeric value to a power

SYNOPSIS
  math::pow(base AS Float, exponent AS Float) AS Float
  math::pow(base AS Fixed, exponent AS Fixed) AS Fixed

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Returns base raised to exponent. The function is overloaded by the exact
  numeric type of its arguments, and the return type always matches that type:
  two Floats yield a Float and two Fixeds yield a Fixed. Both arguments must
  share the same type; there is no mixed-type or Integer overload.

  Either parameter may be supplied positionally or by name. The first argument
  accepts the name base or value, and the second accepts the name exponent or
  power.

  The Float overload evaluates the power with host floating-point arithmetic,
  so it accepts any base and exponent the underlying platform routine accepts,
  including fractional and negative exponents. A combination with no real
  result, such as a negative base raised to a fractional exponent, produces a
  NaN result, and a magnitude too large to represent produces an infinite
  result; both are reported as errors rather than returned.

  The Fixed overload computes a deterministic raw Q32.32 result without using
  host floating-point, so the result is identical across targets. A
  whole-number exponent uses exact repeated multiplication and works for any
  base sign, taking the reciprocal of the result when the exponent is
  negative. A fractional exponent is evaluated as exp(exponent * ln(base)) and
  therefore requires base > 0. The result is rounded to the nearest
  representable Fixed value.

OVERLOADS
  math::pow(base AS Float, exponent AS Float) AS Float
    Computes base raised to exponent using floating-point arithmetic. Fails
    with ErrFloatNaN when the result has no real value and with ErrFloatInf
    when the result is infinite.

  math::pow(base AS Fixed, exponent AS Fixed) AS Fixed
    Computes base raised to exponent using deterministic fixed-point (Q32.32)
    arithmetic and rounds to the nearest Fixed value. Fails with
    ErrInvalidArgument when a fractional exponent is applied to a non-positive
    base, or when a negative exponent is applied to a base of zero, and with
    ErrOverflow when the result leaves Fixed range.

PARAMETERS
  base AS Float | Fixed
    The number being raised to a power, also accepted under the name value.
    Any value of the chosen numeric type is accepted, subject to the domain
    restrictions described under the Fixed overload and ERRORS.

  exponent AS Float | Fixed
    The power to which base is raised, also accepted under the name power. Must
    match the numeric type of base. May be whole or fractional and positive,
    zero, or negative.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Float | Fixed
    base raised to exponent, in the same numeric type as the arguments. Any
    base raised to a zero exponent returns one. The Fixed overload rounds the
    result to the nearest representable Fixed value.

ERRORS
  77050013 (ErrFloatNaN)
  Raised by the Float overload when the result has no real value, such as a
  negative base raised to a fractional exponent.

  77050014 (ErrFloatInf)
  Raised by the Float overload when the result is infinite, such as a base and
  exponent whose magnitude exceeds the Float range.

  77050002 (ErrInvalidArgument)
  Raised by the Fixed overload when a fractional exponent is applied to a base
  that is not positive, which has no real result, or when a negative exponent
  is applied to a base of zero, whose reciprocal is undefined.

  77050010 (ErrOverflow)
  Raised by the Fixed overload when the computed result is outside the
  representable Fixed range.

TYPE CHECKING
  base and exponent must both be Float or both be Fixed. Calling math::pow with
  mixed numeric types, with an Integer, or with any non-numeric value such as a
  String, Boolean, Byte, record, union, resource, thread, function, or lambda
  is a compile-time type error.

EXAMPLES
  Raise a Float to a power:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Float = math::pow(2.0, 8.0)

  Raise a Fixed to a whole-number power:

    IMPORT math

    LET area AS Fixed = math::pow(3.0, 2.0)

NOTES
  Array (List) overload. In addition to the scalar forms above, math::pow
  also accepts numeric Lists (List OF Integer, List OF Float, or List OF
  Fixed), applying pow to every element with NEON SIMD and returning a new
  List of the same numeric type. A per-element error is reported once, after
  every element has been processed, so it is deterministic regardless of
  which element triggered it; the partially built result List is then
  discarded. Float array results come from a hand-written NEON f64 kernel
  (no external math library) and are faithfully rounded: within 1 ULP for
  the vast majority of inputs, with a small residual for its hard cases. The
  scalar Float overload stays on the host math library. See `mfb spec
  language builtin-functions` for the full array-overload table.

SEE ALSO
  math::sqrt, math::exp, math::log, math::abs
