NAME
  sin - sine of an angle in radians

SYNOPSIS
  math::sin(value AS Float) AS Float
  math::sin(value AS Fixed) AS Fixed

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Returns the trigonometric sine of value, where value is interpreted as a
  plane angle measured in radians. The result is the ratio of the side
  opposite the angle to the hypotenuse of the corresponding right triangle and
  always lies in the closed interval from -1 to 1.

  The function is overloaded by the numeric type of its single argument, and
  the return type always matches that type: a Float yields a Float and a Fixed
  yields a Fixed. There is no mixed-type overload; the argument selects which
  version is called. The Float overload computes the sine with host
  floating-point arithmetic. The Fixed overload computes the sine using
  deterministic fixed-point (Q32.32) arithmetic without using host
  floating-point, so the result is identical across targets, and then rounds
  the result to the nearest representable Fixed value.

  Sine is mathematically defined for every real argument, so there is no
  restricted domain and no finite input is rejected. For a very large
  magnitude the angle's fractional part relative to a full turn becomes less
  precise, so the result loses accuracy, but the call still succeeds. The Float
  overload guards its result against a non-number outcome: a non-finite input
  such as a positive or negative infinity drives the host sine to NaN, which is
  reported as ErrFloatNan rather than returned. The Fixed overload has no such
  failure path. The function performs no mutation and has no side effects.

OVERLOADS
  math::sin(value AS Float) AS Float
    Computes the sine of a Float angle and returns it as a Float. Fails with
    ErrFloatNan when the result is not a number, which happens only when value
    is non-finite (an infinity or a NaN); every finite Float input succeeds.

  math::sin(value AS Fixed) AS Fixed
    Computes the sine of a Fixed angle using deterministic fixed-point (Q32.32)
    arithmetic and returns it as a Fixed, rounding the result to the nearest
    representable Fixed value. Never fails.

PARAMETERS
  value AS Float | Fixed
    The angle whose sine is computed, expressed in radians. Any value of the
    chosen numeric type is accepted; there is no excluded range. A non-finite
    Float angle yields a NaN result and is reported as ErrFloatNan.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Float | Fixed
    The sine of value, in the same numeric type as value, within the closed
    interval from -1 to 1. The sine of zero is zero.

ERRORS
  77050013 (ErrFloatNan)
  Raised by the Float overload when the computed result is not a number, which
  occurs when value is non-finite, such as the sine of a positive or negative
  infinity. The Fixed overload never raises this error.

TYPE CHECKING
  The argument must be a single Float or Fixed value. Passing an Integer, or a
  non-numeric value such as a String, Boolean, Byte, record, union, resource,
  thread, function, or lambda, is a compile-time type error.

EXAMPLES
  Sine of a Float angle in radians:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Float = math::sin(math::pi)

  Sine of a Fixed angle:

    IMPORT math

    LET wave AS Fixed = math::sin(0.0)

NOTES
  Array (List) overload. In addition to the scalar forms above, math::sin
  also accepts numeric Lists (List OF Integer, List OF Float, or List OF
  Fixed), applying sin to every element with NEON SIMD and returning a new
  List of the same numeric type. A per-element error is reported once, after
  every element has been processed, so it is deterministic regardless of
  which element triggered it; the partially built result List is then
  discarded. Float array results come from a hand-written NEON f64 kernel
  (no external math library) within 1 ULP of macOS libm; the scalar Float
  overload shares that kernel, so math::sin(x) and math::sin([x])[0] are
  bit-identical. See `mfb spec language builtin-functions` for the full
  array-overload table.

SEE ALSO
  math::cos, math::tan, math::asin, math::atan2
