NAME
  sqrt - square root for Float and Fixed

SYNOPSIS
  math::sqrt(value AS Float) AS Float
  math::sqrt(value AS Fixed) AS Fixed
  math::sqrt(values AS List OF Float) AS List OF Float
  math::sqrt(values AS List OF Fixed) AS List OF Fixed

PACKAGE
  math

IMPORTS
  IMPORT math

DESCRIPTION
  Returns the non-negative square root of value. The function is overloaded
  by the exact numeric type of value, and the return type always matches that
  type: a Float yields a Float and a Fixed yields a Fixed. There is no mixed
  or Integer overload; the single argument selects which version is called.

  Only non-negative inputs have a real square root, so a negative value is a
  domain error in both overloads rather than producing a NaN or wrapping. The
  square root of zero is zero, and the square root of one is one.

  The Float overload computes the result with floating-point arithmetic. The
  Fixed overload computes a deterministic raw Q32.32 square root without using
  host floating-point, so the result is identical across targets, and rounds
  to the nearest representable Fixed value.

OVERLOADS
  math::sqrt(value AS Float) AS Float
    Computes the square root of a Float using floating-point arithmetic. Fails
    with ErrFloatDomain when value is negative.

  math::sqrt(value AS Fixed) AS Fixed
    Computes the square root of a Fixed using deterministic fixed-point
    (Q32.32) arithmetic and rounds to the nearest Fixed value. Fails with
    ErrInvalidArgument when value is negative.

  math::sqrt(values AS List OF Float | Fixed) AS List OF (same type)
    Applies sqrt to each element of a numeric List using NEON SIMD and
    returns a new List of the same type and length. It raises the same
    errors as the scalar overload(s) above, but a per-element failure is
    reported once, after every element has been processed (the partially
    built result List is discarded), so the error is deterministic
    regardless of which element triggered it. Each element equals the
    corresponding scalar result exactly.

PARAMETERS
  value AS Float | Fixed
    The number whose square root is computed. Must be zero or positive; any
    negative value of the chosen numeric type is a domain error.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Float | Fixed
    The non-negative square root of value, in the same numeric type as value.
    A value of zero returns zero.

ERRORS
  77050012 (ErrFloatDomain)
  Raised by the Float overload when value is negative, which has no real
  square root.

  77050002 (ErrInvalidArgument)
  Raised by the Fixed overload when value is negative, which has no real
  square root.

TYPE CHECKING
  The argument must be a single Float or Fixed. Passing an Integer or any
  non-numeric value such as a String, Boolean, Byte, record, union, resource,
  thread, function, or lambda is a compile-time type error.

EXAMPLES
  Square root of a Float:

    IMPORT math

    LET value AS Float = math::sqrt(9.0)

  Square root of a Fixed:

    IMPORT math

    LET side AS Fixed = math::sqrt(2.0)


SEE ALSO
  math::pow, math::exp, math::abs
