NAME
  get - read a nested JSON object value by key path

SYNOPSIS
  json::get(value AS Json, path AS List OF String) AS Json

PACKAGE
  json

IMPORTS
  IMPORT json

DESCRIPTION
  json::get walks path through nested Json object members and returns the Json
  value found at the end of that path. Starting from value, each path element is
  treated as a String object key: the current value must be a Json Obj, and the
  named member becomes the new current value before the next element is applied.
  Traversal is left to right, one key at a time.

  Only object members are traversed. Arrays, and the Null, Bool, Num, and Str
  variants, have no keyed members, so reaching any of them while path elements
  remain is a failure rather than a default. An empty path performs no traversal
  and returns value unchanged, whatever variant it is.

  The path argument may also be passed by the name key. json::get does not copy
  value; it returns the located Json value directly. Use json::getOr instead when
  a missing key or non-object should yield a fallback rather than fail.

PARAMETERS
  value AS Json
    The root Json value to read from. May be any Json variant; traversal only
    succeeds through Obj members.

  path AS List OF String
    The sequence of object keys to follow, from the root inward. Each element
    selects an object member by exact String key. An empty list selects value
    itself. May be passed by the name key.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Json
    The Json value reached by following every key in path. Returns value
    unchanged when path is empty.

ERRORS
  77050004 (ErrNotFound)
  Raised when a path element names a key absent from the current Json Obj, or
  when traversal reaches a non-object Json value (Null, Bool, Num, Str, or Arr)
  while path elements remain.

EXAMPLES
  Read a nested member by key path:

    LET city AS Json = json::get(doc, ["user", "address", "city"])

  An empty path returns the root value unchanged:

    LET root AS Json = json::get(doc, [])

SEE ALSO
  getOr, parse, stringify
