NAME
  map - owned key/value Map values

SYNOPSIS
  Map OF K TO V

DESCRIPTION
  Map OF K TO V is an owned key/value collection. Keys have type K and values
  have type V. K must be comparable.

  A map value owns its keys and values. Binding a map with LET creates an
  immutable snapshot. Binding a map with MUT creates a locally mutable binding,
  but the value is still owned by that binding.

LITERALS
  Map literals name the key and value types:

    LET ages = Map OF String TO Integer { "Ada" := 36, "Grace" := 85 }
    LET empty AS Map OF String TO Integer = Map OF String TO Integer { }

KEYS
  Map keys must be comparable. Comparable types are Integer, Float, Fixed,
  Boolean, String, Byte, Nothing, enum types, and records whose fields are all
  comparable.

  List, Map, unions, functions, lambdas, threads, and resource handles are not
  comparable and cannot be used as map keys.

COPYING
  Maps are copyable only when both the key and value types are copyable. Copying
  a map copies the map contents. The runtime collection layout is one
  contiguous allocation, so copying a map snapshot can be implemented as one
  contiguous memory copy.

  A copied map is independent of the original. Mutating one map binding does not
  mutate another copied snapshot.

OWNED ITEMS
  Map keys and values are owned by the map. Primitive keys and values are stored
  as payload bytes. String keys and values stored inside a collection are UTF-8
  bytes owned by the collection.

  The collection representation stores a header, lookup entries, and packed key
  and value payload bytes in one allocation. Version 1 collection storage
  supports primitive and String payloads directly. User-defined records, unions,
  and nested collection payloads require an extended representation before they
  can be stored directly inside collection data.

MUTATION
  Collection helper functions such as set, removeKey, keys, values, get, getOr,
  hasKey, and contains return or inspect map values.

  For MUT map bindings, the compiler may update the local owned buffer when it
  is safe to do so. For LET map bindings, the original value remains an
  immutable snapshot and helper calls produce a new value.

ITERATION ORDER
  Map iteration order is implementation-defined but stable for a given unchanged
  map value during one program run. Repeated keys, values, and FOR EACH
  traversal of the same unchanged map use the same order.

  Creating a changed map value may choose a different order.

  FOR EACH over a map yields MapEntry OF K TO V values:

    FOR EACH entry IN ages
      io::print(entry.key & ": " & toString(entry.value))
    NEXT

SEE ALSO
  types list
  collection
  mfbasic
