NAME
  types - MFBASIC type system

SYNOPSIS
  mfb man types

DESCRIPTION
  MFBASIC has a small set of compiler-owned types that are always understood by
  the language. Primitive types name scalar values. Compiler-owned templates such as
  List, Map, Result, MapEntry, and Thread are monomorphized before bytecode is
  generated, so each concrete use has a fully known type.

  User-defined TYPE, UNION, ENUM, and TYPE ... AS RESOURCE declarations create
  additional program types, but they are not built-in types. Callable signatures
  such as FUNC(Integer) AS String are first-class function type forms rather
  than named built-in data types.

PRIMITIVES
  Boolean
    A truth value. Boolean literals are TRUE and FALSE.

  Byte
    An unsigned 8-bit integer with range 0 through 255. Integer literals may
    initialize a Byte only when they are statically in range. Runtime conversion
    uses toByte and fails on out-of-range values.

  Integer
    A 64-bit signed integer. Integer arithmetic is checked; overflow is an
    error rather than wraparound.

  Float
    A finite 64-bit IEEE floating-point value. MFBASIC does not expose
    successful NaN or infinity results; operations that would produce them fail
    instead.

  Fixed
    A deterministic 64-bit binary fixed-point number with a signed 32/32 split.
    Its resolution is 1 / 2^32. Decimal literals assigned to Fixed are rounded
    to the nearest representable Fixed value.

  String
    An immutable UTF-8 string. String length, search, and substring operations
    use zero-based Unicode scalar indexes, not byte offsets or grapheme-cluster
    indexes.

  Nothing
    The unit type. Its only value is NOTHING. A SUB has success type Nothing,
    and Result OF Nothing represents an effect-only operation that can still
    fail.

ERROR TYPES
  Error
    The standard error payload:

      TYPE Error
        code AS Integer
        message AS String
      END TYPE

    All language-level failures use this payload. There are no per-function
    error types.

  Result OF T
    The compiler-owned success/error union:

      UNION Result OF T
        Ok(value AS T)
        Err(error AS Error)
      END UNION

    Every FUNC or SUB effectively returns Result. At ordinary call sites an Ok
    value is auto-unwrapped. An Err value transfers to the enclosing TRAP or
    propagates to the caller. To inspect the Result directly, use the call as
    the direct scrutinee of MATCH.

CONTAINERS
  List OF T
    An owned ordered sequence of values of type T. List indexes are zero-based.
    LET list values are immutable snapshots. MUT list bindings may be updated
    locally, while collection helper functions still return the resulting list
    value.

  Map OF K TO V
    An owned key/value mapping. K must be comparable. Map iteration order is
    implementation-defined but stable for a given unchanged map value during one
    program run.

  MapEntry OF K TO V
    The compiler-owned record shape produced by FOR EACH over a map:

      TYPE MapEntry OF K TO V
        key AS K
        value AS V
      END TYPE

    The fields are public and read-only.

CONCURRENCY
  Thread OF Msg TO Out
    An opaque handle to an isolated worker thread. Msg is the message type used
    with parent-side thread send/receive operations. Out is the worker entry
    function's success type. Thread handles are not copyable or sendable.

  ThreadWorker OF Msg TO Out
    An opaque handle to the worker-side view of the same thread. Msg is the
    message type used with worker-side thread send/receive operations. Out is
    the worker entry function's success type. ThreadWorker handles are not
    copyable or sendable.

PACKAGE TYPES
  TerminalSize
    The io package record returned by io::terminalSize:

      TYPE TerminalSize
        columns AS Integer
        rows AS Integer
      END TYPE

    Its fields report terminal width and height in character cells.

NUMERIC RULES
  Numeric literals are initially untyped. Integer-looking literals default to
  Integer when there is no expected type. Decimal-looking literals default to
  Float when there is no expected type. Use an explicit type annotation or a
  conversion function such as toFixed when a different numeric type is needed.

  Mixed numeric expressions promote operands using the language's numeric
  promotion rules. Numeric comparisons return Boolean.

COMPARABILITY
  Some built-ins, including Map keys and list search helpers, require comparable
  types. Comparable types are Integer, Float, Fixed, Boolean, String, Byte,
  Nothing, enum types, and records whose fields are all comparable.

  List, Map, unions, functions, lambdas, threads, and resource handles are not
  comparable.

OWNERSHIP
  Primitives, String, enums, Nothing, records whose fields are copyable, and
  unions whose active payload is copyable are copyable.

  List and Map are copyable only when their element, key, and value types are
  copyable. Copying a collection copies its contents. Thread and resource
  handles are not copyable.

SEE ALSO
  general
  collection
  io
  thread
