NAME
  clear - clear the TUI drawing surface

SYNOPSIS
  term::clear() AS Nothing

PACKAGE
  term

IMPORTS
  IMPORT term

DESCRIPTION
  Clears the entire term:: drawing surface, erasing all text previously drawn on
  it and leaving a blank screen. Every cell is reset to empty, so after
  term::clear returns the surface shows nothing until new output is drawn.

  Clearing fills the surface using the current background color: cells erased by
  term::clear take on the background color last set with term::setBackground (or
  the default black established by term::on), while the current foreground color,
  bold and underline attributes, and cursor visibility are left unchanged. The
  cursor position is not part of what is erased; term::clear does not move the
  cursor, so a program that wants to draw from the top should follow it with
  term::moveTo(0, 0). On the console backend the function emits the terminal
  sequence that erases the screen; in app mode it clears the application's
  terminal view instead of writing to a file descriptor.

  Like the rest of the term:: surface other than term::on and term::isOn,
  term::clear is gated behind TUI mode: it is a no-op while TUI mode is off, so a
  program must call term::on first for the screen to be cleared. term::on itself
  clears the screen as part of resetting the surface to defaults, so an explicit
  term::clear is only needed to blank the surface again after drawing.

  The function takes no arguments and has no return value; its only effect is to
  clear the drawing surface.

PARAMETERS
  None.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Nothing
    Returns nothing. The function is invoked for its side effect of clearing the
    TUI drawing surface.

ERRORS
  No errors.

EXAMPLES
  Enter TUI mode, clear the screen, then draw from the home position:

    IMPORT term
    IMPORT io

    term::on()
    term::clear()
    term::moveTo(0, 0)
    io::print("a fresh screen")
    term::off()

  Blank the surface with a chosen background color:

    term::on()
    term::setBackground(0, 0, 128)
    term::clear()

SEE ALSO
  term::on, term::off, term::moveTo, term::setBackground
