NAME
  monotonic - a monotonically non-decreasing reading for measuring elapsed time

SYNOPSIS
  datetime::monotonic() AS Duration

PACKAGE
  datetime

IMPORTS
  IMPORT datetime

DESCRIPTION
  datetime::monotonic reads the host's monotonic clock and returns the elapsed
  span, as a Duration, from an arbitrary fixed origin chosen by the operating
  system. The clock never moves backward: a later call always returns a span
  that is greater than or equal to an earlier one. It is unrelated to wall-clock
  time, carries no calendar meaning, and is not comparable across processes or
  across reboots, so the absolute value of a single reading is meaningless.

  The only intended use is to measure elapsed time: take two readings and
  subtract the earlier from the later with datetime::minus. Because the clock is
  immune to wall-clock adjustments (NTP steps, manual clock changes, daylight
  saving), the difference is a reliable interval where datetime::now would not
  be. Use datetime::now, not monotonic, whenever you need an actual point in
  time.

  Internally monotonic reads a single nanoseconds-since-origin value from the OS
  intrinsic (clock_gettime(CLOCK_MONOTONIC) on the supported platforms), then
  splits it into the seconds and nanos fields of a Duration by a truncating
  divide and remainder against 1_000_000_000. The divisor is a non-zero
  constant, so the split cannot trap, and the nanosecond remainder already falls
  in 0 .. 999_999_999.

  monotonic is not pure: two calls may return different spans, and the values
  depend on host clock state. It takes no arguments, reads clock state only, and
  has no side effects.

PARAMETERS
  None.
    datetime::monotonic takes no arguments.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Duration
    The elapsed span from the OS-chosen monotonic origin to the moment of the
    call. The seconds field holds whole elapsed seconds and the nanos field
    holds the sub-second remainder in 0 .. 999_999_999. Only differences between
    two readings are meaningful; a single reading has no fixed reference point.

ERRORS
  No errors.

EXAMPLES
  Measure the elapsed time around a block of work:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET t0 AS Duration = datetime::monotonic()
    ' ... work ...
    LET elapsed AS Duration = datetime::minus(datetime::monotonic(), t0)

  Render the measured interval as text:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET t0 AS Duration = datetime::monotonic()
    ' ... work ...
    LET span AS Duration = datetime::minus(datetime::monotonic(), t0)
    LET text AS String = datetime::formatDuration(span)

SEE ALSO
  datetime::now, datetime::minus, datetime::formatDuration
