NAME
  plus - add two Durations

SYNOPSIS
  datetime::plus(a AS Duration, b AS Duration) AS Duration

PACKAGE
  datetime

IMPORTS
  IMPORT datetime

DESCRIPTION
  datetime::plus returns the Duration a + b, the signed span that results from
  combining two spans of elapsed physical time. It adds the two seconds fields
  and the two nanos fields independently, then normalizes the sum so the stored
  nanos lands in the range 0 .. 999_999_999, carrying any whole seconds embedded
  in the nanosecond sum into the seconds field.

  Because both operands are signed Durations, plus handles spans of either
  direction: adding a negative Duration shortens the total, and adding two
  Durations of opposite sign moves toward zero. The operation is commutative —
  datetime::plus(a, b) and datetime::plus(b, a) yield the same Duration — and
  pairs with datetime::minus and datetime::negate, since
  datetime::plus(a, datetime::negate(b)) equals datetime::minus(a, b).

  The arithmetic is uniform second-and-nanosecond addition with no awareness of
  calendars, time zones, or daylight-saving transitions; it simply totals
  elapsed physical time. To shift a point on the timeline rather than combine
  two spans, use datetime::add on an Instant. The addition is ordinary signed
  Integer arithmetic, so a combined second count that exceeds the Integer range
  overflows and traps. plus is pure: the same two Durations always yield the
  same Duration, and it has no side effects.

PARAMETERS
  a AS Duration
    The first span to add. Its seconds field is a whole-second count (which may
    be negative) and its nanos field is the sub-second remainder.

  b AS Duration
    The second span to add. Its seconds and nanos fields are added to those of
    a. A negative Duration subtracts from the running total.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Duration
    The Duration a + b, normalized so its seconds field holds the whole-second
    count (which may be negative) and its nanos field holds the sub-second
    remainder in 0 .. 999_999_999.

ERRORS
  77050010 (ErrOverflow)
  Raised when adding the seconds fields, or carrying the normalized nanoseconds
  into the seconds field, produces a value outside the signed Integer range.

EXAMPLES
  Combine a 90-second span with a 500-millisecond span:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET a AS Duration = datetime::duration(90)
    LET b AS Duration = datetime::duration(0, 500_000_000)
    LET total AS Duration = datetime::plus(a, b)

  Adding a negative Duration shortens the total:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET a AS Duration = datetime::duration(3600)
    LET total AS Duration = datetime::plus(a, datetime::duration(-600))

SEE ALSO
  datetime::minus, datetime::negate, datetime::duration, datetime::add
