NAME
  subtract - shift an Instant backward by a Duration

SYNOPSIS
  datetime::subtract(at AS Instant, by AS Duration) AS Instant

PACKAGE
  datetime

IMPORTS
  IMPORT datetime

DESCRIPTION
  datetime::subtract returns the Instant reached by moving at backward along the
  UTC timeline by the span by. It subtracts the seconds field of by from the
  seconds field of at and the nanos field of by from the nanos field of at,
  independently, then normalizes the result so the stored nanos lands in the
  range 0 .. 999_999_999, borrowing a whole second from the seconds field when
  the nanosecond difference is negative. The result is a point on the same
  Unix-epoch, leap-second-free timeline as at.

  Because by is a signed Duration, subtract covers both directions on the
  timeline: a positive span moves the Instant earlier and a negative span moves
  it later, so datetime::add(at, by) and datetime::subtract(at, by) name opposite
  shifts. The arithmetic is uniform second-and-nanosecond subtraction with no
  awareness of calendars, time zones, or daylight-saving transitions; it simply
  counts elapsed physical time. For civil, zone-aware day and month arithmetic
  that honors DST and varying month lengths, use datetime::addDays and
  datetime::addMonths on a DateTime instead.

  The subtraction is ordinary signed Integer arithmetic, so a span large enough
  to push the combined second count past the Integer range overflows and traps.
  subtract is pure: the same Instant and Duration always yield the same Instant,
  and it has no side effects.

PARAMETERS
  at AS Instant
    The starting point on the UTC timeline to shift. Its seconds field is whole
    seconds since 1970-01-01T00:00:00Z (possibly negative for instants before
    the epoch) and its nanos field is the sub-second remainder.

  by AS Duration
    The signed span to subtract. A positive Duration moves at to an earlier
    Instant; a negative Duration advances it to a later one. Its seconds and
    nanos fields are subtracted from those of at.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Instant
    The Instant at at - by, normalized so its seconds field holds the whole-
    second count (which may be negative) and its nanos field holds the sub-
    second remainder in 0 .. 999_999_999.

ERRORS
  77050010 (ErrOverflow)
  Raised when subtracting the seconds fields, or borrowing the normalized
  nanoseconds from the seconds field, produces a value outside the signed
  Integer range.

EXAMPLES
  Move an Instant back by a 90-second span:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET base AS Instant = datetime::instant(1_700_000_000)
    LET earlier AS Instant = datetime::subtract(base, datetime::duration(90))

  A negative Duration shifts the Instant forward:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET base AS Instant = datetime::instant(1_700_000_000)
    LET later AS Instant = datetime::subtract(base, datetime::duration(-3600))

SEE ALSO
  datetime::add, datetime::between, datetime::duration, datetime::addDays, datetime::addMonths
