NAME
  weekday - the day of the week of a DateTime's civil date

SYNOPSIS
  datetime::weekday(dt AS DateTime) AS Weekday

PACKAGE
  datetime

IMPORTS
  IMPORT datetime

DESCRIPTION
  datetime::weekday returns the day of the week on which dt's civil date falls,
  as a value of the Weekday enum (Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,
  Saturday, Sunday).

  The result is derived solely from the calendar date fields carried by dt — its
  year, month, and day as projected into dt's own zone. The day count for that
  civil date is computed on the proleptic Gregorian calendar and reduced modulo
  seven against a fixed reference, so the answer is the wall-clock weekday a
  person reading dt's date in its zone would name. The time-of-day fields, the
  sub-second nanoseconds, and the zone's UTC offset do not affect the result; no
  Instant is resolved and no zone table is consulted.

  Because the computation reads only dt's stored civil date, the same instant
  projected into two different zones can report two different weekdays whenever
  the zones place that instant on opposite sides of midnight. The week is treated
  as starting on Monday, matching the ordering of the Weekday enum, so
  Weekday.Monday is the first day and Weekday.Sunday is the last.

  datetime::weekday is pure: it reads no host state and has no side effects.

PARAMETERS
  dt AS DateTime
    The DateTime whose civil date is examined. Only the date's year, month, and
    day are used; the time-of-day, nanoseconds, and zone offset are ignored for
    the purpose of naming the weekday.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Weekday
    The Weekday enum member naming the day of the week of dt's civil date, one of
    Weekday.Monday through Weekday.Sunday.

ERRORS
  No errors.

EXAMPLES
  Name the weekday of a civil date in the local zone:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET d AS Date = datetime::date(2026, 6, 26)
    LET tm AS Time = datetime::time(9, 30)
    LET dt AS DateTime = datetime::civil(d, tm, datetime::local())
    LET w AS Weekday = datetime::weekday(dt)

  Branch on whether a DateTime falls on the weekend:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET w AS Weekday = datetime::weekday(dt)
    IF w = Weekday.Saturday OR w = Weekday.Sunday THEN
      PRINT "weekend"
    END IF

SEE ALSO
  datetime::dayOfYear, datetime::format, datetime::civil
