NAME
  find - locate the first regular-expression match and return its start index

SYNOPSIS
  regex::find(value AS String, pattern AS String) AS Integer
  regex::find(value AS String, pattern AS String, start AS Integer) AS Integer

PACKAGE
  regex

IMPORTS
  IMPORT regex

DESCRIPTION
  find compiles pattern as a regular expression, searches value for the first
  match beginning at or after the position start, and returns the zero-based
  index where that match starts. It is the locating form of the regex package:
  match reports only whether a match exists, find reports where the first one
  begins, and findAll reports the start of every non-overlapping match.

  The search is unanchored and leftmost. A match is sought at each position
  start, start+1, ... in turn, and the smallest position at which the pattern
  can match is reported; at that position the engine resolves the match by
  preference order (earlier alternatives, greedy quantifiers as long as
  possible, lazy ones as short as possible), but only the start index is
  returned. start restricts only where a match may begin; it does not redefine
  the input, so the absolute anchors \A and \z, and ^ and $ when the m flag is
  off, are still evaluated against the whole value. For example
  regex::find("abc", "^b", 1) finds nothing, because ^ is absolute position 0.
  A zero-length match is valid and reports its own start position; an empty or
  empty-matching pattern matches immediately at start.

  Positions are Unicode scalar values, never UTF-8 bytes and never grapheme
  clusters, consistent with len and the strings package. A string of n scalars
  has positions 0 .. n; position n is after the last scalar. Both the start
  argument and the returned index are scalar indexes.

  start defaults to 0, meaning the search begins at the start of value. It must
  be in the range 0 through the scalar length of value inclusive; the upper
  bound equals the length so that a search may begin at the end of the string
  (where only a zero-length or end-anchored pattern can match). A negative
  start, or one greater than the scalar length, is out of range.

  pattern is an ordinary runtime String, so it may be built or read at run time;
  it uses MFBASIC's own portable regex dialect, defined in
  `./mfb spec stdlib regex` (run `mfb man regex`), which produces identical
  results on every target and never defers to a host regex library. Because
  String literals process backslash escapes, a literal backslash is written
  "\\": regex::find(value, "\\d") searches for the first digit. An invalid
  pattern fails with ErrInvalidFormat rather than being silently accepted; when
  no match exists at or after start, find returns -1 rather than failing. Because
  every real match position is >= 0, -1 is an unambiguous "no match" sentinel.
  (This differs from strings::find, which fails with ErrNotFound on absence.)

  find does not mutate value or pattern and has no side effects. The returned
  Integer is a fresh value. See the regex package page for the full pattern
  language, flags, and Unicode semantics.

OVERLOADS
  regex::find(value AS String, pattern AS String) AS Integer
    Searches from position 0; equivalent to passing start = 0.

  regex::find(value AS String, pattern AS String, start AS Integer) AS Integer
    Searches from the explicit scalar position start.

PARAMETERS
  value AS String
    The subject text searched for a match. It is never modified.

  pattern AS String
    The regular expression to compile and search for. It must be a valid
    pattern in the MFBASIC regex dialect; otherwise the call fails with
    ErrInvalidFormat.

  start AS Integer
    The zero-based scalar index at or after which the match must begin. Defaults
    to 0. Must be between 0 and the scalar length of value inclusive;
    start == len(value) is allowed and can match a zero-length or end-anchored
    pattern. May be passed by name.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Integer
    The zero-based Unicode scalar index where the first match at or after start
    begins, or -1 when there is no match. A zero-length match reports its own
    start position.

ERRORS
  77050003 (ErrInvalidFormat)
  Raised when pattern is not a valid regular expression: an unbalanced or
  unterminated group or class, a quantifier with no atom or stacked
  quantifiers, a counted quantifier with m > n, a class range whose low
  endpoint exceeds its high endpoint, an empty class, a backslash escape
  outside the defined set, a \x.../\x{...} value that is not a valid scalar, an
  unknown \p{...} property, a malformed flag or group head, or a non-goal
  construct (backreference or look-around). Pattern compilation is checked
  before start, so this error takes precedence when both apply.

  77050001 (ErrIndexOutOfRange)
  Raised when start is less than 0 or greater than the scalar length of value.

EXAMPLES
  Find the first occurrence, and the first at or after a start position:

    IMPORT regex
    LET firstL AS Integer = regex::find("hello", "l")
    LET nextL AS Integer = regex::find("hello", "l", 3)

  Find the first digit (note the doubled backslash in the String literal):

    IMPORT regex
    LET firstDigit AS Integer = regex::find("a1b2c3", "\\d")

  Handle absence with the -1 sentinel:

    IMPORT regex

    LET i AS Integer = regex::find("abc", "\\d")
    IF i >= 0 THEN
      io::print("matched at " & toString(i))
    ELSE
      io::print("no match")
    END IF

SEE ALSO
  regex::match, regex::findAll, regex::replace, strings::find
