NAME
  on - enable terminal TUI mode and reset terminal state to defaults

SYNOPSIS
  term::on() AS Nothing

PACKAGE
  term

IMPORTS
  IMPORT term

DESCRIPTION
  Switches the terminal into TUI mode, the full-screen drawing mode in which the
  rest of the term:: surface takes effect. term::on is the gate for the module:
  every other term:: call except term::isOn is a no-op while TUI mode is off, so
  a program must call term::on before any cursor movement, color, attribute, or
  clear call will do anything.

  On the console backend the function switches the host terminal to its alternate
  screen buffer, so the program draws on a fresh screen and the user's previous
  shell contents are preserved and restored when term::off is later called. It
  then resets all term:: state to defaults and prepares a clean drawing surface:
  the foreground color is set to white, the background to black, bold and
  underline attributes are turned off, the cursor is made visible, the screen is
  cleared, and the cursor is moved to the home position (row 0, column 0). In app
  mode the same call activates the application's terminal view instead of writing
  to a file descriptor.

  The function takes no arguments and has no return value; its only effect is to
  activate TUI mode and emit the reset sequence. Calling term::on while TUI mode
  is already on is allowed and simply re-applies the defaults, clearing the screen
  and resetting colors and attributes again. After term::on returns, term::isOn
  reports true until term::off is called.

PARAMETERS
  None.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Nothing
    Returns nothing. The function is invoked for its side effect of enabling TUI
    mode and resetting the terminal to its default drawing state.

ERRORS
  No errors.

EXAMPLES
  Enter TUI mode, draw, then restore the terminal on exit:

    IMPORT term
    IMPORT io

    term::on()
    term::moveTo(0, 0)
    term::setForeground(255, 0, 0)
    io::print("hello in red")
    term::off()

  Guard term:: drawing behind the gate:

    term::on()
    IF term::isOn() THEN
      term::clear()
    END IF

SEE ALSO
  term::off, term::isOn, term::clear, term::moveTo
