NAME
  term - full-screen terminal TUI surface: cursor, colors, attributes, and clearing

SYNOPSIS
  IMPORT term
  term::on()
  term::moveTo(row, column)
  term::setForeground(r, g, b)
  term::clear()
  term::off()

DESCRIPTION
  The term package gives a program a structured, full-screen terminal surface for
  text user interfaces: it moves the cursor, sets the foreground and background
  colors and the bold and underline attributes, clears the screen, shows or hides
  the cursor, and reports the surface size. The same surface is rendered on the
  console backend (using the terminal's alternate screen and ANSI sequences) and
  in windowed app mode (mfb build -app), so a program draws the same way on both.

  term::on is the gate for the whole module. It switches the terminal into TUI
  mode and resets all term:: state to its defaults (white foreground, black
  background, bold and underline off, cursor visible, screen cleared, cursor at
  the home position). Every other term:: call except term::isOn is a no-op while
  TUI mode is off, so a program must call term::on before any cursor, color,
  attribute, or clear call takes effect, and term::off later leaves TUI mode and
  restores the user's previous screen. term::isOn reports whether TUI mode is
  currently on and works whether or not it is.

  Coordinates are zero-based and measured from the top-left corner of the surface:
  row 0 is the topmost line and column 0 is the leftmost column, so (0, 0) is the
  home position. The first coordinate is always the row (vertical) and the second
  the column (horizontal). Negative coordinates are clamped to 0; in app mode they
  are also clamped at the high end to the last valid cell. Colors are 24-bit RGB
  triples of three Byte channels (red, green, blue), each 0 to 255. Color and
  attribute changes take effect immediately for subsequently drawn text and do not
  alter text already on the screen; each setting is independent, so changing one
  leaves the others untouched, and the matching get function reads the current
  value back.

  The package defines two built-in record types. TermColor has three Byte fields r,
  g, and b holding the red, green, and blue channels of a color, and is returned by
  term::getForeground and term::getBackground. TermSize has two Integer fields
  columns (the width of the surface in character cells) and rows (its height), and
  is returned by term::terminalSize; the surface size can change between calls (for
  example when the terminal window is resized), so a program that depends on it
  should query it again rather than caching the result.

ERRORS
  No errors.
