NAME
  contains - test whether a string contains another string

SYNOPSIS
  strings::contains(value AS String, needle AS String) AS Boolean

PACKAGE
  strings

IMPORTS
  IMPORT strings

DESCRIPTION
  Returns TRUE when needle appears as a contiguous substring of value and FALSE
  otherwise. The test is a raw byte search: the bytes of needle are matched
  against the bytes of value at every offset, and the result is TRUE as soon as a
  match is found at any position. Because both operands are Strings holding UTF-8
  bytes, a matching byte sequence that is itself a well-formed UTF-8 string
  corresponds to a substring at character boundaries; the search itself operates
  on bytes and does not normalize, case-fold, or otherwise transform either
  operand.

  The empty needle is always found and yields TRUE for any value, including the
  empty string, since the empty sequence occurs at every position. When needle is
  longer than value the result is FALSE, because value cannot contain more bytes
  than it holds. Searching a non-empty needle in an empty value yields FALSE.

  Neither operand is modified and the function has no side effects. To test only
  the leading or trailing bytes of a string, use strings::startsWith or
  strings::endsWith; to obtain the position of the first match, use strings::find.

PARAMETERS
  value AS String
    The string to search within. May be empty.

  needle AS String
    The substring to look for anywhere in value. May be empty, in which case the
    function always returns TRUE.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Boolean
    TRUE when the bytes of needle occur as a contiguous run within value, FALSE
    otherwise. An empty needle always returns TRUE; a needle longer than value
    always returns FALSE.

ERRORS
  No errors.

EXAMPLES
  Test for a substring:

    IMPORT io
    IMPORT strings

    FUNC main AS Integer
      io::print(toString(strings::contains("Hello 😀", "😀")))
      RETURN 0
    END FUNC

  The empty needle always matches:

    LET ok AS Boolean = strings::contains("anything", "")

SEE ALSO
  strings::find, strings::startsWith, strings::endsWith, strings::count
