NAME
  normalizeNfc - normalize a string to Unicode Normalization Form C

SYNOPSIS
  strings::normalizeNfc(value AS String) AS String

PACKAGE
  strings

IMPORTS
  IMPORT strings

DESCRIPTION
  normalizeNfc returns a new String produced by converting value to Unicode
  Normalization Form C (NFC). NFC first decomposes each character canonically and
  then recomposes it, so that combining marks are merged into precomposed
  characters wherever a canonical composition exists. The result is the canonical
  form recommended for storing, comparing, and transmitting text: two strings that
  are canonically equivalent but encoded differently become byte-for-byte equal
  after both are normalized.

  Normalization operates over Unicode scalar values across the whole string. For
  example a base letter followed by a combining accent, such as "e" plus U+0301
  COMBINING ACUTE ACCENT, is recomposed into the single precomposed character "é"
  (U+00E9); the two encodings are indistinguishable in the result. Characters that
  are already in composed form, and characters that have no canonical composition,
  are carried through unchanged. NFC applies only canonical equivalence: it does
  not perform compatibility decomposition, so characters such as ligatures or
  full-width forms are preserved rather than expanded.

  Normalization can change the length of the string, since a base character and one
  or more following combining marks may collapse into a single scalar. The mapping
  is locale-independent and applies no language-specific tailoring. Normalization
  is independent of case: it does not fold or change case, so apply caseFold in
  addition when normalization- and case-insensitive matching is required. The
  original value is not mutated; the result is a new owned String.

PARAMETERS
  value AS String
    The string to normalize. Any String is accepted, including the empty string.

RETURN VALUE
  AS String
    A new String holding the NFC form of value. An empty input yields an empty
    String, and a string that is already in NFC yields an equal String.

ERRORS
  No errors.

EXAMPLES
  Combining sequences and precomposed characters normalize to the same value:

    LET same AS Boolean = strings::normalizeNfc("é") = strings::normalizeNfc("é")

  Normalize text before storing or comparing it:

    IMPORT io
    IMPORT strings

    FUNC main AS Integer
      io::print(strings::normalizeNfc("Café"))
      RETURN 0
    END FUNC

SEE ALSO
  caseFold, lower, upper
