NAME
  replace - replace every occurrence of a substring with another string

SYNOPSIS
  strings::replace(value AS String, old AS String, new AS String) AS String

PACKAGE
  strings

IMPORTS
  IMPORT strings

DESCRIPTION
  replace returns a new String in which every non-overlapping occurrence of old
  in value has been replaced with new.

  Matching scans value from left to right. Each time old is found, the matched
  text is replaced with new and scanning resumes at the position immediately
  following the matched region, so matches never overlap and a replacement is
  never re-examined. Where old does not match, the original bytes are copied
  through unchanged.

  Matching is performed on raw UTF-8 bytes. replace does not normalize Unicode,
  fold case, or operate on grapheme clusters; old must match value byte for byte
  to be replaced. Because the inputs are well-formed UTF-8 and UTF-8 is
  self-synchronizing, a byte match is always also a whole-scalar match, so the
  result is always well-formed UTF-8.

  If old is the empty String, no occurrence can match and value is returned
  unchanged; replace never inserts new between existing characters. If old is
  longer than value it likewise cannot match and value is returned unchanged.
  When old does match and new is the empty String, each match is removed without
  inserting anything in its place.

  replace does not mutate value, old, or new and has no side effects. The
  returned String is always a fresh owned value, even when no replacement
  occurred (in that case value is deep-copied rather than aliased).

  replace is also defined for collections; see collections replace for the List
  overload that replaces an element at a given index.

PARAMETERS
  value AS String
    The string to search and copy from. Returned unchanged (as a fresh copy)
    when old does not occur.

  old AS String
    The substring to search for, also accepted under the name needle. An empty
    old never matches, so value is returned unchanged; an old longer than value
    also never matches.

  new AS String
    The replacement string written in place of each match of old, also accepted
    under the name replacement. May be empty to delete matches.

RETURN VALUE
  AS String
    A new String with every non-overlapping occurrence of old replaced by new.
    When there are no matches, the returned String equals value.

ERRORS
  No errors.

TYPE CHECKING
  value, old, and new must all be String values.

EXAMPLES
  Replace every occurrence:

    LET text AS String = strings::replace("hello", "l", "x")

  Delete a substring with an empty new:

    LET trimmed AS String = strings::replace("a-b-c", "-", "")

  An empty old leaves value unchanged:

    LET same AS String = strings::replace("hello", "", "x")

SEE ALSO
  find, mid, contains, split, len, collections replace
