NAME
  split - split a string into a list of substrings around a delimiter

SYNOPSIS
  strings::split(value AS String, delimiter AS String) AS List OF String

PACKAGE
  strings

IMPORTS
  IMPORT strings

DESCRIPTION
  split scans value from left to right and breaks it apart at every
  non-overlapping occurrence of delimiter, returning the pieces between the
  matches as a List OF String.

  Matching is performed on raw bytes of the UTF-8 encoded strings, not on
  grapheme clusters or code points. After a match is consumed, scanning resumes
  at the byte immediately following the matched delimiter, so matches never
  overlap.

  The list always contains exactly one more element than the number of
  delimiter matches found. Consequences of this rule:

    - If delimiter does not occur in value, the result is a single-element list
      whose only element equals value unchanged. This also covers the case where
      delimiter is longer than value.
    - A leading match produces a leading empty String; a trailing match produces
      a trailing empty String.
    - Two adjacent matches produce an empty String between them.
    - Splitting the empty String "" yields a single-element list containing one
      empty String.

  delimiter must not be empty. An empty delimiter is rejected before any
  scanning occurs.

  value is not mutated; split returns a new owned list of new owned strings.

  The delimiter parameter may also be passed under the name separator.

PARAMETERS
  value AS String
    The string to divide. Any String, including the empty String, is accepted.

  delimiter AS String
    The separator to break value on. Must be a non-empty String. Every
    non-overlapping occurrence becomes a split point and is itself removed from
    the output.

RETURN VALUE
  AS List OF String
    A list of the substrings of value lying between successive delimiter
    matches, in left-to-right order. The list has length (matches + 1) and is
    never empty: when no match is found it contains value as its single element.

ERRORS
  77050002 (ErrInvalidArgument)
  Raised when delimiter is the empty String.

EXAMPLES
  Split on a single-character delimiter:

    LET parts AS List OF String = strings::split("a,b,c", ",")

  A trailing delimiter yields a trailing empty element:

    LET trailing AS List OF String = strings::split("a,b,", ",")

  A delimiter that does not occur returns the whole string as one element:

    LET whole AS List OF String = strings::split("abc", "-")

SEE ALSO
  join, contains, find, count, collections chunks
