NAME
  stripPrefix - remove a leading prefix from a string

SYNOPSIS
  strings::stripPrefix(value AS String, prefix AS String) AS String

PACKAGE
  strings

IMPORTS
  IMPORT strings

DESCRIPTION
  Returns value with one leading occurrence of prefix removed when value begins
  with prefix, and returns value unchanged otherwise. The match is a raw byte
  comparison: the leading bytes of value are compared against the bytes of prefix,
  in order, and the prefix is considered present only when every byte of prefix
  matches the byte at the same offset from the start of value. Because both
  operands are Strings holding UTF-8 bytes, a matching byte prefix that is itself
  a well-formed UTF-8 string corresponds to a prefix at character boundaries; the
  comparison itself is performed on bytes and does not normalize, case-fold, or
  otherwise transform either operand.

  Only a single leading occurrence is removed. If value begins with prefix
  repeated more than once, only the first copy is stripped and any further copies
  remain. When prefix is the empty string, value is returned unchanged, since the
  empty prefix removes no bytes. When prefix is longer than value, or when the
  leading bytes do not match, value is returned unchanged.

  The function is total and never fails. Neither operand is modified and the
  function has no side effects; a new String is produced for the result. To remove
  a trailing suffix instead, use strings::stripSuffix; to test for a leading
  prefix without removing it, use strings::startsWith.

PARAMETERS
  value AS String
    The string to strip from. May be empty. Returned unchanged when it does not
    begin with prefix.

  prefix AS String
    The leading byte sequence to remove. May be empty, in which case value is
    returned unchanged.

RETURN VALUE
  AS String
    value with one leading copy of prefix removed when value begins with prefix;
    otherwise value unchanged. An empty prefix, a prefix longer than value, and a
    non-matching prefix all return value unchanged.

ERRORS
  No errors.

EXAMPLES
  Remove a leading scheme from a URL:

    IMPORT io
    IMPORT strings

    FUNC main AS Integer
      io::print(strings::stripPrefix("https://example.com", "https://"))
      RETURN 0
    END FUNC

  A non-matching prefix leaves the string unchanged:

    LET same AS String = strings::stripPrefix("example.com", "https://")

SEE ALSO
  strings::stripSuffix, strings::startsWith, strings::trimStart, strings::contains
