NAME
  lookup - resolve a host name to network addresses

SYNOPSIS
  net::lookup(host AS String) AS List OF Address
  net::lookup(host AS String, port AS Integer) AS List OF Address

PACKAGE
  net

IMPORTS
  IMPORT net

DESCRIPTION
  lookup resolves host to zero or more network addresses and returns them as a
  List OF Address. host may be a host name (for example "example.com") or a
  textual IP address; it is passed to the host resolver and the matching IPv4
  results are collected. Only IPv4 (AF_INET) results are returned: any IPv6 or
  other address-family records the resolver reports are skipped, so the returned
  list may be shorter than the resolver's full answer and may be empty when host
  has no IPv4 address.

  Each returned Address has a host field (String) holding the textual IPv4
  address and a port field (Integer) holding the requested port. The optional
  port is recorded verbatim on every returned Address; when omitted it defaults
  to 0. port does not affect which records are resolved — it only stamps the
  port on each Address so the result can be handed straight to net::connectTcp.

  The list is returned in the resolver's order, which is implementation-defined
  but stable for a given host. lookup does not expose DNS record types, TTLs,
  canonical names, or any other resolver metadata, and it performs no caching of
  its own beyond whatever the underlying host resolver provides. lookup has no
  side effects and does not open any sockets.

OVERLOADS
  net::lookup(host AS String) AS List OF Address
    Resolves host and stamps each returned Address with port 0.

  net::lookup(host AS String, port AS Integer) AS List OF Address
    Resolves host and stamps each returned Address with the given port.

PARAMETERS
  host AS String
    The host name or textual IP address to resolve. Passed to the host resolver
    as-is; a malformed value, or one that cannot be resolved, raises an error
    (see ERRORS).

  port AS Integer
    The port number to record on every returned Address. Optional; defaults to
    0 when omitted. It is stored on the results and does not influence
    resolution.

RETURN VALUE
  AS List OF Address
    A list of Address records, one per resolved IPv4 result, each carrying the
    textual host and the requested port. The list preserves the resolver's
    order and is empty when host resolves but has no IPv4 address.

ERRORS
  77010001 (ErrOutOfMemory)
  Raised when memory for the result list, an Address record, or the resolver
  request could not be allocated.

  77070001 (ErrAddressInvalid)
  Raised when a resolved address could not be converted to its textual form.

  77070002 (ErrAddressNotFound)
  Raised when host could not be resolved, including when it is malformed or has
  no address record.

EXAMPLES
  Resolve a host and connect to the first address:

    IMPORT net

    LET addresses = net::lookup("example.com", 80)
    LET address = get(addresses, 0)
    RES client = net::connectTcp(address, timeoutMs := 5000)
    ' client is closed by lexical drop when this scope ends

  Resolve without a port and inspect each result:

    IMPORT net

    LET addresses = net::lookup("example.com")
    FOR EACH address IN addresses
      io::print(address.host)
    NEXT

SEE ALSO
  net::connectTcp, net::bindUdp, net::remoteAddress, net::localAddress
