NAME
  count - count non-overlapping occurrences of a substring

SYNOPSIS
  strings::count(value AS String, needle AS String) AS Integer

PACKAGE
  strings

IMPORTS
  IMPORT strings

DESCRIPTION
  Returns the number of non-overlapping occurrences of needle within value as an
  Integer. The scan is a raw byte search: starting at the first byte of value,
  the bytes of needle are compared against value at the current offset. When the
  bytes match, the count is incremented and the cursor advances past the entire
  matched needle, so overlapping matches are not counted; when they do not match,
  the cursor advances by a single byte. The scan continues until fewer than
  len(needle) bytes remain, at which point no further match is possible.

  Because both operands are Strings holding UTF-8 bytes, a needle that is itself a
  well-formed UTF-8 string is matched at character boundaries; the search itself
  operates on bytes and does not normalize, case-fold, or otherwise transform
  either operand. Counting on byte boundaries means a multi-byte needle is only
  reported where its complete byte sequence appears.

  The non-overlapping rule is significant for self-similar needles. Counting "aa"
  in "aaaa" yields 2, not 3, because after the first match at offset 0 the cursor
  jumps to offset 2 rather than offset 1. A needle longer than value yields 0,
  since no offset can hold it.

  Neither operand is modified and the function has no side effects. To test only
  whether a substring is present, use strings::contains; to obtain the position of
  the first match, use strings::find.

PARAMETERS
  value AS String
    The string to scan. May be empty, in which case the result is 0.

  needle AS String
    The substring to count. Must be non-empty; an empty needle raises an error.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Integer
    The number of non-overlapping occurrences of needle in value, counted left to
    right. Returns 0 when needle does not occur, including when needle is longer
    than value or when value is empty.

ERRORS
  77050002 (ErrInvalidArgument)
  Raised when needle is the empty string, which has no well-defined occurrence
  count.

EXAMPLES
  Count a repeated substring:

    IMPORT io
    IMPORT strings

    FUNC main AS Integer
      io::print(toString(strings::count("banana", "na")))
      RETURN 0
    END FUNC

  Non-overlapping matches advance past the whole needle:

    LET n AS Integer = strings::count("aaaa", "aa")

SEE ALSO
  strings::contains, strings::find, strings::replace
