NAME
  find - locate the first occurrence of a substring by Unicode scalar index

SYNOPSIS
  strings::find(value AS String, needle AS String, start AS Integer = 0) AS Integer

PACKAGE
  strings

IMPORTS
  IMPORT strings

DESCRIPTION
  find searches value for the first occurrence of needle at or after the
  position start and returns the zero-based index where it begins.

  Positions are measured in Unicode scalar values, not UTF-8 bytes and not
  user-perceived grapheme clusters. A multi-byte character such as "é" or "😀"
  counts as one position even though it occupies several bytes. Both the start
  argument and the returned index are scalar indexes.

  The search begins at scalar position start and scans toward the end of value.
  The first position whose following scalars match needle in full is returned.
  An empty needle matches immediately and returns start, provided start is a
  valid position in value.

  start defaults to 0, meaning the search begins at the start of value. start
  must be in the range 0 through the scalar length of value inclusive; the
  upper bound equals the length so that a search may begin at the end of the
  string (where only an empty needle can match). A negative start, or one
  greater than the scalar length, is out of range.

  find always returns a valid index on success; it never reports absence with a
  sentinel value. When needle does not occur anywhere at or after start, find
  raises ErrNotFound rather than returning -1 (see ERRORS). When absence is an
  expected, non-exceptional outcome, guard the call with strings::contains and
  only call find once a match is known to exist.

  find does not mutate value or needle and has no side effects. The returned
  Integer is a fresh value.

  find is also defined for collections; see collections find for the List
  overload.

PARAMETERS
  value AS String
    The string to search.

  needle AS String
    The substring to locate. An empty needle matches at start.

  start AS Integer
    The zero-based scalar index at which to begin searching. Defaults to 0.
    Must be between 0 and the scalar length of value inclusive.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Integer
    The zero-based Unicode scalar index of the first occurrence of needle at or
    after start. When needle is empty, returns start.

ERRORS
  77050001 (ErrIndexOutOfRange)
  Raised when start is less than 0 or greater than the scalar length of value.

  77050004 (ErrNotFound)
  Raised when no occurrence of needle exists at or after start.

TYPE CHECKING
  value and needle must both be String. start must be an Integer.

EXAMPLES
  Find the first occurrence of a substring:

    LET index AS Integer = strings::find("hello", "l")

  Start the search after an earlier match:

    LET index AS Integer = strings::find("hello", "l", 3)

  Guard with contains when absence is expected:

    IMPORT io
    IMPORT strings

    FUNC main AS Integer
      LET value = "hello world"
      IF strings::contains(value, "world") THEN
        io::print(toString(strings::find(value, "world")))
      ELSE
        io::print("absent")
      END IF
      RETURN 0
    END FUNC

SEE ALSO
  mid, replace, contains, collections find
