NAME
  graphemes - split a string into its extended grapheme clusters

SYNOPSIS
  strings::graphemes(value AS String) AS List OF String

PACKAGE
  strings

IMPORTS
  IMPORT strings

DESCRIPTION
  graphemes splits value into Unicode extended grapheme clusters and returns
  them, in order, as a List of String.

  An extended grapheme cluster is one user-perceived character. It may consist
  of several Unicode scalar values: a base letter followed by combining marks,
  a flag built from a pair of regional indicators, or an emoji formed from a
  base symbol joined to modifiers and zero-width joiners. graphemes groups all
  of the scalars that make up such a cluster into a single element, so the
  result reflects what a reader would count as separate characters rather than
  what len(value) counts (which is Unicode scalar values) or what
  strings::byteLen(value) counts (which is UTF-8 bytes).

  The clusters appear in the same left-to-right order as in value, and
  concatenating them in order reproduces value exactly. An empty value produces
  an empty List. value is not modified and graphemes has no side effects; the
  returned List and its String elements are fresh values.

PARAMETERS
  value AS String
    The string to split. Any String is accepted, including the empty string.
    Its content is interpreted as Unicode text when determining cluster
    boundaries.

RETURN VALUE
  AS List OF String
    A List whose elements are the extended grapheme clusters of value, in
    order. Each element is a String holding one cluster. The empty string
    yields an empty List.

ERRORS
  No errors.

EXAMPLES
  Split a string that contains a multi-scalar emoji:

    IMPORT io
    IMPORT strings

    FUNC main AS Integer
      LET parts = strings::graphemes("a😀")
      io::print(toString(len(parts)))
      RETURN 0
    END FUNC

  Iterate over user-perceived characters:

    IMPORT io
    IMPORT strings

    FUNC main AS Integer
      FOR EACH g IN strings::graphemes("héllo")
        io::print(g)
      END FOR
      RETURN 0
    END FUNC

SEE ALSO
  graphemesCount, graphemeAt, byteLen, len
