NAME
  join - concatenate a list of strings, inserting a delimiter between elements

SYNOPSIS
  strings::join(parts AS List OF String, delimiter AS String) AS String

PACKAGE
  strings

IMPORTS
  IMPORT strings

DESCRIPTION
  join walks parts from first to last and concatenates the elements into a
  single String, placing one copy of delimiter between every pair of adjacent
  elements. delimiter is inserted only between elements, never before the first
  element or after the last, so a list of N elements produces exactly N - 1
  delimiters in the result.

  Concatenation operates on the raw UTF-8 bytes of each element and of
  delimiter; the bytes are copied verbatim and no normalization, trimming, or
  case folding is performed. Because joining well-formed UTF-8 fragments only
  ever places one fragment after another, the result is itself well-formed
  UTF-8.

  delimiter may be any String, including the empty String. An empty delimiter
  performs a plain concatenation of the elements with nothing between them.
  Individual elements of parts may also be empty; an empty element contributes
  no bytes of its own but still participates in delimiter placement, so two
  adjacent empty elements still produce a delimiter between them.

  Boundary cases follow directly from the "delimiter between elements only"
  rule:

    - An empty list yields the empty String "".
    - A single-element list yields that element unchanged, with no delimiter.
    - join and split are inverses for a non-empty delimiter: joining the result
      of strings::split(value, delimiter) with the same delimiter reproduces
      value.

  Neither parts nor delimiter is mutated; join returns a new owned String.

  The parts parameter may also be passed under the name values, and the
  delimiter parameter under the name separator.

PARAMETERS
  parts AS List OF String
    The strings to concatenate, in order. Any List OF String is accepted,
    including the empty list and lists containing empty Strings. Also accepted
    under the name values.

  delimiter AS String
    The separator placed between successive elements of parts. Any String is
    accepted, including the empty String, which concatenates the elements with
    nothing between them. Also accepted under the name separator.

RETURN VALUE
  AS String
    A new String consisting of the elements of parts in order, separated by
    delimiter. The empty list produces "" and a single-element list produces
    that element unchanged.

ERRORS
  No errors.

EXAMPLES
  Join words with a space:

    IMPORT io
    IMPORT strings

    FUNC main AS Integer
      LET line = strings::join(["Hello", "World"], " ")
      io::print(line)
      RETURN 0
    END FUNC

  An empty delimiter concatenates the elements directly:

    IMPORT io
    IMPORT strings

    FUNC main AS Integer
      LET glued = strings::join(["a", "b", "c"], "")
      io::print(glued)
      RETURN 0
    END FUNC

  Joining is the inverse of splitting on the same delimiter:

    IMPORT io
    IMPORT strings

    FUNC main AS Integer
      LET parts = strings::split("a,b,c", ",")
      LET round = strings::join(parts, ",")
      io::print(round)
      RETURN 0
    END FUNC

SEE ALSO
  split, repeat, contains, collections sum
