NAME
  mid - extract a substring by Unicode scalar index and length

SYNOPSIS
  strings::mid(value AS String, start AS Integer, count AS Integer) AS String

PACKAGE
  strings

IMPORTS
  IMPORT strings

DESCRIPTION
  mid returns a new String containing count Unicode scalar values of value,
  beginning at the zero-based scalar position start.

  Positions and lengths are measured in Unicode scalar values, not UTF-8 bytes
  and not user-perceived grapheme clusters. A multi-byte character such as "é"
  or "😀" counts as one position even though it occupies several bytes, and mid
  never splits a scalar mid-encoding; the returned String is always well-formed
  UTF-8.

  start is the zero-based index of the first scalar to include and count is the
  number of scalars to take. Both must be 0 or greater. A count of 0 returns the
  empty String, even when start is at the very end of value. start may equal the
  scalar length of value, which (with a count of 0) selects the empty slice at
  the end of the string.

  Unlike left and right, mid does not clamp out-of-range requests: it does not
  shorten the result when the requested window runs past the end of value.
  Instead, start must be no greater than the scalar length of value, and
  start + count must not exceed the scalar length, otherwise the call raises an
  error (see ERRORS). This makes an over-long request a detectable mistake
  rather than a silent truncation.

  mid does not mutate value and has no side effects. The returned String is a
  new owned value.

  mid is also defined for collections; see collections mid for the List
  overload that slices a List OF T by element index.

PARAMETERS
  value AS String
    The string to slice.

  start AS Integer
    The zero-based scalar index of the first scalar to include. Must be between
    0 and the scalar length of value inclusive.

  count AS Integer
    The number of Unicode scalar values to take, beginning at start. Must be 0
    or greater, and start + count must not exceed the scalar length of value.

RETURN VALUE
  AS String
    A new String holding count scalars of value starting at start. Returns the
    empty String when count is 0.

ERRORS
  77050001 (ErrIndexOutOfRange)
  Raised when start is less than 0, when count is less than 0, when start is
  greater than the scalar length of value, or when start + count exceeds the
  scalar length of value (including the case where start + count overflows).

TYPE CHECKING
  value must be String. start and count must be Integer values.

EXAMPLES
  Slice three scalars from the middle:

    LET part AS String = strings::mid("hello", 1, 3)

  A count of 0 returns the empty string:

    LET empty AS String = strings::mid("hello", 2, 0)

  Multi-byte characters count as single positions:

    LET tail AS String = strings::mid("café", 3, 1)

SEE ALSO
  left, right, find, replace, len, collections mid
