NAME
  replace - replace all occurrences of a substring

SYNOPSIS
  strings::replace(value AS String, old AS String, new AS String) AS String

PACKAGE
  strings

IMPORTS
  IMPORT strings

DESCRIPTION
  replace returns a new String in which every non-overlapping occurrence of old
  in value has been replaced with new.

  Matching scans value from left to right. After a match is replaced, scanning
  resumes at the position following the matched text, so matches never overlap.
  Matching is performed on raw UTF-8 bytes; the function does not normalize
  Unicode or operate on grapheme clusters. The original value is not mutated and
  the result is a fresh owned String.

  If old is an empty String, or old is longer than value, no occurrence can
  match and replace returns a String equal to value unchanged. When old is found
  but new is empty, each match is removed without inserting anything.

  replace is also defined for collections; see collections replace for the List
  overload.

OVERLOADS
  strings::replace(value AS String, old AS String, new AS String) AS String
    Replaces every non-overlapping occurrence of old in value with new.

PARAMETERS
  value AS String
    The string to search and copy from. Returned unchanged when old does not
    occur.

  old AS String
    The substring to search for. An empty old never matches, so value is
    returned unchanged.

  new AS String
    The replacement substring written in place of each match of old. May be
    empty to delete matches.

RETURN VALUE
  AS String
    A new String with every non-overlapping occurrence of old replaced by new.
    When there are no matches, the returned String equals value.

ERRORS
  No errors.

TYPE CHECKING
  value, old, and new must all be String values.

EXAMPLES
  Replace every occurrence:

    LET text AS String = strings::replace("hello", "l", "x")

  Delete a substring with an empty new:

    LET trimmed AS String = strings::replace("a-b-c", "-", "")

  An empty old leaves value unchanged:

    LET same AS String = strings::replace("hello", "", "x")

SEE ALSO
  find, mid, contains, len, collections replace
