NAME
  stripSuffix - remove a trailing suffix from a string

SYNOPSIS
  strings::stripSuffix(value AS String, suffix AS String) AS String

PACKAGE
  strings

IMPORTS
  IMPORT strings

DESCRIPTION
  Returns value with one trailing occurrence of suffix removed when value ends
  with suffix, and returns value unchanged otherwise. The match is a raw byte
  comparison: the trailing bytes of value are compared against the bytes of
  suffix, in order, and the suffix is considered present only when every byte of
  suffix matches the byte at the same offset from the end of value. Because both
  operands are Strings holding UTF-8 bytes, a matching byte suffix that is itself
  a well-formed UTF-8 string corresponds to a suffix at character boundaries; the
  comparison itself is performed on bytes and does not normalize, case-fold, or
  otherwise transform either operand.

  Only a single trailing occurrence is removed. If value ends with suffix
  repeated more than once, only the last copy is stripped and any earlier copies
  remain. When suffix is the empty string, value is returned unchanged, since the
  empty suffix removes no bytes. When suffix is longer than value, or when the
  trailing bytes do not match, value is returned unchanged.

  The function is total and never fails. Neither operand is modified and the
  function has no side effects; a new String is produced for the result. To
  remove a leading prefix instead, use strings::stripPrefix; to test for a
  trailing suffix without removing it, use strings::endsWith.

PARAMETERS
  value AS String
    The string to strip from. May be empty. Returned unchanged when it does not
    end with suffix.

  suffix AS String
    The trailing byte sequence to remove. May be empty, in which case value is
    returned unchanged.

RETURN VALUE
  AS String
    value with one trailing copy of suffix removed when value ends with suffix;
    otherwise value unchanged. An empty suffix, a suffix longer than value, and a
    non-matching suffix all return value unchanged.

ERRORS
  No errors.

EXAMPLES
  Remove a file extension:

    IMPORT io
    IMPORT strings

    FUNC main AS Integer
      io::print(strings::stripSuffix("photo.png", ".png"))
      RETURN 0
    END FUNC

  A non-matching suffix leaves the string unchanged:

    LET same AS String = strings::stripSuffix("photo.png", ".jpg")

SEE ALSO
  strings::stripPrefix, strings::endsWith, strings::trimEnd, strings::contains
