NAME
  parse - parse UTF-8 CSV text into a grid of String cells

SYNOPSIS
  csv::parse(value AS String) AS List OF List OF String

PACKAGE
  csv

IMPORTS
  IMPORT csv

DESCRIPTION
  csv::parse scans value left to right and returns the resulting grid as a
  List OF List OF String: a list of rows, each a list of String cells. The text
  is processed grapheme by grapheme as UTF-8.

  The field delimiter is a comma. A record separator is a line feed (LF) or a
  carriage-return/line-feed pair (CRLF); a bare CR not followed by LF is ordinary
  data inside the current field. A field may be wrapped in double quotes: the
  opening quote must be the first byte of the field, inside a quoted field a
  literal double quote is written by doubling it (""), and commas, CR, and LF are
  ordinary data. The closing quote must be immediately followed by a comma, a
  record separator, or the end of input. Whitespace is significant and never
  trimmed.

  Cells are plain Strings with no type inference and no null. A single trailing
  record separator does not create an empty final row, so "a\nb\n" parses to two
  rows; two consecutive separators do produce an empty row in the middle. Empty
  input parses to zero rows. Rows are not required to be rectangular. Cells are
  read positionally with collections::get, which raises ErrIndexOutOfRange on its
  own for an out-of-range index.

  The argument may also be passed by the name text.

PARAMETERS
  value AS String
    The CSV text to parse. May also be supplied by the name text.

RETURN VALUE
  AS List OF List OF String
    The grid of rows of String cells. Empty input yields an empty list.

ERRORS
  77050003 (ErrInvalidFormat)
  Raised when a quoted field is opened but never closed before the end of input,
  or when the closing quote of a quoted field is followed by a byte that is
  neither a comma, a record separator, nor the end of input.

EXAMPLES
  Parse a two-column document with a quoted cell:

    LET doc AS List OF List OF String = csv::parse("name,age\nAda,36")

  Pass the argument by name:

    LET rows AS List OF List OF String = csv::parse(text := "a,b,c")

SEE ALSO
  stringify
