NAME
  flush - flush standard output

SYNOPSIS
  io::flush() AS Nothing

PACKAGE
  io

IMPORTS
  IMPORT io

DESCRIPTION
  Drains any pending standard-output data so that everything written so far is
  pushed to the underlying destination. When opt-in buffering is enabled with
  io::setBuffered(TRUE), text passed to io::write or io::print is held in a
  per-thread buffer rather than written immediately; calling io::flush forces that
  buffer to drain at once. This is most useful when emitting a prompt with
  io::write and then waiting for input, since without a flush the prompt could
  remain in the buffer and never appear before the program blocks on a read.

  The function takes no arguments and has no return value; its only effect is to
  flush the stream. When buffering is off (the default) there is no MFBASIC buffer
  to drain, so io::flush only requests a sync of whatever buffering the host stream
  itself applies; when buffering is on it writes the held bytes and then requests
  that same host sync.

  Output is directed to whichever destination is bound to standard output. In a
  normal console program this is file descriptor 1; in app mode the same call is
  routed to the application transcript window instead of a file descriptor.
  Standard error is written immediately and is never buffered, so it has no
  corresponding flush.

PARAMETERS
  None.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Nothing
    Returns nothing. The function is invoked for its side effect of flushing
    standard output.

ERRORS
  77020002 (ErrOutput)
  Raised when the underlying flush of standard output fails with a real I/O
  error, for example when the output stream is closed or a host write error
  occurs. Destinations that do not support syncing, such as terminals and
  pipes, are treated as already flushed and do not raise this error.

EXAMPLES
  Write a prompt and force it to appear before reading input:

    io::write("Name: ")
    io::flush()
    LET name AS String = io::readLine()

  Ensure buffered output is visible at a checkpoint:

    io::write("ready")
    io::flush()

SEE ALSO
  io::setBuffered, io::isBuffered, io::write, io::print, io::writeError
