NAME
  add - shift an Instant forward by a Duration

SYNOPSIS
  datetime::add(at AS Instant, by AS Duration) AS Instant

PACKAGE
  datetime

IMPORTS
  IMPORT datetime

DESCRIPTION
  datetime::add returns the Instant reached by advancing at forward along the
  UTC timeline by the span by. It adds the two seconds fields and the two nanos
  fields independently, then normalizes the sum so the stored nanos lands in the
  range 0 .. 999_999_999, carrying any whole seconds embedded in the nanosecond
  sum into the seconds field. The result is a point on the same Unix-epoch,
  leap-second-free timeline as at.

  Because by is a signed Duration, add covers both directions on the timeline:
  a positive span moves the Instant later and a negative span moves it earlier,
  so datetime::add(at, by) and datetime::subtract(at, by) name opposite shifts.
  The arithmetic is uniform second-and-nanosecond addition with no awareness of
  calendars, time zones, or daylight-saving transitions; it simply counts
  elapsed physical time. For civil, zone-aware day and month arithmetic that
  honors DST and varying month lengths, use datetime::addDays and
  datetime::addMonths on a DateTime instead.

  The addition is ordinary signed Integer arithmetic, so a span large enough to
  push the combined second count past the Integer range overflows and traps. add
  is pure: the same Instant and Duration always yield the same Instant, and it
  has no side effects.

PARAMETERS
  at AS Instant
    The starting point on the UTC timeline to shift. Its seconds field is whole
    seconds since 1970-01-01T00:00:00Z (possibly negative for instants before
    the epoch) and its nanos field is the sub-second remainder.

  by AS Duration
    The signed span to add. A positive Duration advances at to a later Instant;
    a negative Duration moves it to an earlier one. Its seconds and nanos fields
    are added to those of at.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Instant
    The Instant at at + by, normalized so its seconds field holds the whole-
    second count (which may be negative) and its nanos field holds the sub-
    second remainder in 0 .. 999_999_999.

ERRORS
  77050010 (ErrOverflow)
  Raised when adding the seconds fields, or carrying the normalized nanoseconds
  into the seconds field, produces a value outside the signed Integer range.

EXAMPLES
  Advance an Instant by a 90-second span:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET base AS Instant = datetime::instant(1_700_000_000)
    LET later AS Instant = datetime::add(base, datetime::duration(90))

  A negative Duration shifts the Instant backward:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET base AS Instant = datetime::instant(1_700_000_000)
    LET earlier AS Instant = datetime::add(base, datetime::duration(-3600))

SEE ALSO
  datetime::subtract, datetime::between, datetime::duration, datetime::addDays, datetime::addMonths
