NAME
  between - the signed Duration span between two instants

SYNOPSIS
  datetime::between(start AS Instant, finish AS Instant) AS Duration

PACKAGE
  datetime

IMPORTS
  IMPORT datetime

DESCRIPTION
  datetime::between returns the signed Duration finish - start: the length of
  elapsed time you would add to start to reach finish. The span is positive when
  finish is later than start, negative when finish is earlier, and zero when the
  two instants are equal. Because the result is a Duration it carries no anchor
  on the timeline; it names a length, not a point.

  The span is computed by subtracting the two Instants field by field
  (finish.seconds - start.seconds and finish.nanos - start.nanos) and then
  normalizing the pair so the stored nanos lands in 0 .. 999_999_999 and any
  borrow is carried into the seconds field. A negative nanosecond difference
  borrows a whole second during normalization, so the seconds field of the
  result is the floored whole-second component of the true difference and the
  nanos field is the non-negative sub-second remainder. The two instants are
  both points on the UTC timeline, so the span is independent of any time zone;
  resolve a DateTime to an Instant with datetime::resolve before measuring.

  between is pure: the same two instants always yield the same Duration, and it
  has no side effects. The subtraction and the normalizing carry are ordinary
  signed Integer arithmetic, so two instants far enough apart that their second
  difference falls outside the signed Integer range will overflow and trap.
  Render the result with datetime::formatDuration, and combine or apply spans
  with datetime::plus, datetime::minus, datetime::negate, datetime::add, and
  datetime::subtract.

PARAMETERS
  start AS Instant
    The earlier reference point, subtracted from finish. A point on the UTC
    timeline.

  finish AS Instant
    The later reference point, from which start is subtracted. A point on the
    UTC timeline. When finish precedes start the returned span is negative.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Duration
    The signed span finish - start. The seconds field holds the normalized
    whole-second component (negative when finish precedes start) and the nanos
    field holds the sub-second remainder in 0 .. 999_999_999. Equal instants
    yield a zero Duration.

ERRORS
  77050010 (ErrOverflow)
  Raised when subtracting the two instants, or carrying the normalized
  nanoseconds into the seconds field, produces a second count outside the
  signed Integer range.

EXAMPLES
  Measure the span between two instants and render it:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET start AS Instant = datetime::instant(1_000)
    LET finish AS Instant = datetime::instant(1_090)
    LET span AS Duration = datetime::between(start, finish)
    PRINT datetime::formatDuration(span)

  A finish earlier than start yields a negative span:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET start AS Instant = datetime::instant(1_090)
    LET finish AS Instant = datetime::instant(1_000)
    LET span AS Duration = datetime::between(start, finish)

  Re-apply the measured span to recover finish from start:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET start AS Instant = datetime::instant(1_000)
    LET finish AS Instant = datetime::instant(1_090)
    LET span AS Duration = datetime::between(start, finish)
    LET again AS Instant = datetime::add(start, span)

SEE ALSO
  datetime::add, datetime::subtract, datetime::compare, datetime::duration, datetime::formatDuration
