NAME
  compare - order two instants on the UTC timeline

SYNOPSIS
  datetime::compare(a AS Instant, b AS Instant) AS Integer

PACKAGE
  datetime

IMPORTS
  IMPORT datetime

DESCRIPTION
  datetime::compare returns the sign of a - b as a three-way ordering: -1 when a
  is before b, 0 when the two instants name the same point, and 1 when a is after
  b. The result is the standard comparator value suitable for driving a sort or a
  branch on ordering, and it never returns any value other than -1, 0, or 1.

  The comparison is performed field by field. The seconds fields are compared
  first: if a.seconds is less than b.seconds the result is -1, and if it is
  greater the result is 1. Only when the seconds fields are equal are the nanos
  fields compared the same way, so the sub-second component acts as a tiebreaker.
  When both seconds and nanos are equal the instants are identical and the result
  is 0. Because both arguments are points on the UTC timeline, the ordering is
  absolute and independent of any time zone; resolve a DateTime to an Instant
  with datetime::resolve before comparing.

  compare is pure: the same two instants always yield the same Integer, it has no
  side effects, and it performs only signed comparisons (no arithmetic), so it
  cannot overflow or trap. For a Boolean test rather than a three-way sign, use
  datetime::isBefore, datetime::isAfter, or datetime::equals, each of which is
  defined in terms of compare. To measure the size of the gap between two
  instants rather than just their order, use datetime::between.

PARAMETERS
  a AS Instant
    The left operand. A point on the UTC timeline. When a precedes b the result
    is -1.

  b AS Instant
    The right operand, compared against a. A point on the UTC timeline. When b
    precedes a the result is 1.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Integer
    -1 when a is before b, 1 when a is after b, and 0 when a and b name the same
    instant. The seconds fields are compared first and the nanos fields break
    ties, so only fully equal instants return 0.

ERRORS
  No errors.

EXAMPLES
  Order two instants:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET a AS Instant = datetime::instant(1_000)
    LET b AS Instant = datetime::instant(2_000)
    PRINT datetime::compare(a, b)

  Equal instants compare as zero:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET a AS Instant = datetime::instant(1_000)
    LET b AS Instant = datetime::instant(1_000)
    PRINT datetime::compare(a, b)

  Branch on the three-way ordering:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET a AS Instant = datetime::now()
    LET b AS Instant = datetime::instant(0)
    LET order AS Integer = datetime::compare(a, b)
    IF order < 0 THEN PRINT "a is earlier"

SEE ALSO
  datetime::isBefore, datetime::isAfter, datetime::equals, datetime::between, datetime::resolve
