NAME
  duration - build a Duration span from seconds, nanoseconds, or time components

SYNOPSIS
  datetime::duration(seconds AS Integer) AS Duration
  datetime::duration(seconds AS Integer, nanos AS Integer) AS Duration
  datetime::duration(mins AS Integer, seconds AS Integer, nanos AS Integer) AS Duration
  datetime::duration(hours AS Integer, mins AS Integer, seconds AS Integer, nanos AS Integer) AS Duration
  datetime::duration(days AS Integer, hours AS Integer, mins AS Integer, seconds AS Integer, nanos AS Integer) AS Duration

PACKAGE
  datetime

IMPORTS
  IMPORT datetime

DESCRIPTION
  datetime::duration builds a signed Duration, a span of elapsed time with no
  anchor on any timeline. The result carries a whole-second count in its seconds
  field and a sub-second remainder in its nanos field, normalized into the range
  0 .. 999_999_999. A Duration measures a length of time rather than a point in
  time; to name a point on the UTC timeline use datetime::instant instead.

  duration is overloaded by argument count, with five disjoint forms. The one-
  and two-argument forms take whole seconds and, optionally, a nanosecond
  adjustment. The three-, four-, and five-argument forms are component builders
  that fold larger units down into a single second count: the three-argument
  form computes mins*60 + seconds, the four-argument form adds hours*3600, and
  the five-argument form adds days*86400, in every case adding the trailing
  nanos last.

  Whichever form is used, the supplied seconds and nanos are normalized: any
  whole seconds embedded in nanos are carried into the seconds field, and a
  negative nanos value borrows a second so the stored nanos always lands in
  0 .. 999_999_999. Every numeric argument may be negative, which yields a
  negative span pointing backward in time. The one-argument form performs no
  normalization because its nanos is fixed at zero.

  duration is overloaded, so every parameter of the form you call must be
  supplied explicitly; the component forms carry no defaults (see
  standard_package.md). The folding and normalization are ordinary signed
  Integer arithmetic, so a sufficiently large day, hour, minute, or second
  magnitude can overflow the Integer range and trap. Combine durations with
  datetime::plus, datetime::minus, and datetime::negate; apply one to an Instant
  with datetime::add or datetime::subtract. duration is pure: the same arguments
  always yield the same Duration, and it has no side effects.

OVERLOADS
  datetime::duration(seconds AS Integer) AS Duration
    A span of exactly seconds whole seconds, with a zero nanosecond field. No
    normalization is performed.

  datetime::duration(seconds AS Integer, nanos AS Integer) AS Duration
    A span of seconds plus nanos nanoseconds, normalized so the stored nanos
    lands in 0 .. 999_999_999 and any whole seconds carry into seconds.

  datetime::duration(mins AS Integer, seconds AS Integer, nanos AS Integer) AS Duration
    A span of mins*60 + seconds whole seconds, plus nanos, normalized.

  datetime::duration(hours AS Integer, mins AS Integer, seconds AS Integer, nanos AS Integer) AS Duration
    A span of hours*3600 + mins*60 + seconds whole seconds, plus nanos,
    normalized.

  datetime::duration(days AS Integer, hours AS Integer, mins AS Integer, seconds AS Integer, nanos AS Integer) AS Duration
    A span of days*86400 + hours*3600 + mins*60 + seconds whole seconds, plus
    nanos, normalized.

PARAMETERS
  days AS Integer
    Whole days contributing days*86400 seconds. Present only in the
    five-argument form. May be negative.

  hours AS Integer
    Whole hours contributing hours*3600 seconds. Present in the four- and
    five-argument forms. May be negative.

  mins AS Integer
    Whole minutes contributing mins*60 seconds. Present in the three-, four-,
    and five-argument forms. May be negative.

  seconds AS Integer
    Whole seconds. In the one- and two-argument forms this is the complete
    second count of the span; in the component forms it is the seconds
    contribution added to the folded larger units. May be negative.

  nanos AS Integer
    A nanosecond adjustment added to the second count. Need not be in
    0 .. 999_999_999: any whole seconds it contains are carried into the
    seconds field and a negative value borrows a second during normalization.
    Absent only from the one-argument form, where it is fixed at zero.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Duration
    The signed span of the requested length. The seconds field holds the
    normalized whole-second count (which may be negative for a backward span)
    and the nanos field holds the sub-second remainder in 0 .. 999_999_999.

ERRORS
  77050010 (ErrOverflow)
  Raised when folding the components into a second count, or carrying the
  normalized nanoseconds into the seconds field, produces a value outside the
  signed Integer range.

EXAMPLES
  Build a Duration from a whole-second span:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET d AS Duration = datetime::duration(90)

  Build a Duration with a sub-second adjustment that normalizes into the
  seconds field:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET d AS Duration = datetime::duration(10, 1_500_000_000)

  Build a Duration from day, hour, minute, second, and nanosecond components:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET d AS Duration = datetime::duration(1, 2, 3, 4, 0)

  A negative argument yields a backward span:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET d AS Duration = datetime::duration(-30)

SEE ALSO
  datetime::instant, datetime::plus, datetime::minus, datetime::negate, datetime::add, datetime::formatDuration
