NAME
  equals - test whether two instants name the same point

SYNOPSIS
  datetime::equals(a AS Instant, b AS Instant) AS Boolean

PACKAGE
  datetime

IMPORTS
  IMPORT datetime

DESCRIPTION
  datetime::equals is a convenience predicate over instants that returns TRUE
  when a and b name the same point on the UTC timeline and FALSE otherwise. It is
  defined directly in terms of datetime::compare: the result is exactly
  datetime::compare(a, b) = 0, so it is TRUE only when compare reports 0 and
  FALSE when compare reports -1 or 1.

  The comparison is performed field by field, matching datetime::compare. The
  seconds fields are compared first; only when they are equal are the nanos
  fields used as a tiebreaker. Two instants are equal only when both their
  seconds and their nanos fields are equal, so equality is exact to the
  nanosecond and there is no tolerance window. Because both arguments are points
  on the UTC timeline, the test is absolute and independent of any time zone;
  resolve a DateTime to an Instant with datetime::resolve before comparing.

  equals is pure: the same two instants always yield the same Boolean, it has no
  side effects, and it performs only signed comparisons (no arithmetic), so it
  cannot overflow or trap. For the strict ordering tests use datetime::isBefore
  and datetime::isAfter, and for a three-way sign rather than a Boolean use
  datetime::compare. To measure the size of the gap between two instants rather
  than just whether they coincide, use datetime::between.

PARAMETERS
  a AS Instant
    The left operand. A point on the UTC timeline. The result is TRUE only when a
    names the same point as b.

  b AS Instant
    The right operand, compared against a. A point on the UTC timeline. The
    result is TRUE only when b names the same point as a.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Boolean
    TRUE when a and b name the same instant, and FALSE otherwise. The seconds
    fields are compared first and the nanos fields break ties, so a TRUE result
    requires both fields to match exactly.

ERRORS
  No errors.

EXAMPLES
  Equal instants compare as equal:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET a AS Instant = datetime::instant(1_000)
    LET b AS Instant = datetime::instant(1_000)
    PRINT datetime::equals(a, b)

  Different instants are not equal:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET a AS Instant = datetime::instant(1_000)
    LET b AS Instant = datetime::instant(2_000)
    PRINT datetime::equals(a, b)

  Branch on whether two instants coincide:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET a AS Instant = datetime::now()
    LET b AS Instant = datetime::instant(0)
    IF datetime::equals(a, b) THEN PRINT "same instant"

SEE ALSO
  datetime::compare, datetime::isBefore, datetime::isAfter, datetime::between, datetime::resolve
