NAME
  format - render a DateTime as text with the pattern mini-language

SYNOPSIS
  datetime::format(dt AS DateTime, pattern AS String) AS String

PACKAGE
  datetime

IMPORTS
  IMPORT datetime

DESCRIPTION
  datetime::format renders the fields of dt as text by walking pattern from left
  to right and emitting, for each position, either a literal character or the
  value selected by a formatting token. The result is a freshly built String;
  dt is read only and is not modified.

  A token is a run of one or more of the same letter. The run length selects the
  width or style of the field. Any character that is not a recognized formatting
  letter is copied to the output verbatim, so separators such as spaces, dashes,
  colons, and slashes appear literally. To emit a letter that would otherwise be
  read as a token, wrap it in single quotes ('T' produces a literal T); to emit a
  literal apostrophe, write two single quotes ('').

  The recognized tokens are:

    yyyy / yy        year, zero-padded to the run length / last 2 digits
    M / MM           month number, minimal (1-12) / 2-digit
    MMM / MMMM       month name, short / full (English)
    d / dd           day of month, minimal / 2-digit
    H / HH           hour on a 24-hour clock (0-23), minimal / 2-digit
    h / hh           hour on a 12-hour clock (1-12), minimal / 2-digit
    m / mm           minute, minimal / 2-digit
    s / ss           second, minimal / 2-digit
    fff..fffffffff   fractional second, fixed width (3 / 6 / 9 = ms / us / ns)
    a                AM/PM marker (AM before noon, PM at or after noon)
    EEE / EEEE       weekday name, short / full (English)
    Z                offset: the letter Z when the offset is zero, else +/-HH:MM
    ZZ               offset, always +/-HH:MM (Z is never substituted)
    ZZZ              offset, +/-HHMM with no colon

  The year token zero-pads to the run length: yyyy pads to at least 4 digits,
  while yy emits the last two digits of the year. The fractional-second token
  takes the nanoseconds of dt.time, renders them as 9 digits, and keeps the
  leading run-length digits, so fff yields milliseconds, ffffff microseconds,
  and fffffffff nanoseconds. Month, weekday, and AM/PM names are English. The
  offset tokens read dt.offset, the resolved UTC offset carried by dt.

  Inside single quotes every character, including formatting letters, is copied
  literally until the closing quote; an opening quote with no matching close runs
  to the end of pattern. datetime::format is pure: it reads no host state and has
  no side effects.

PARAMETERS
  dt AS DateTime
    The moment to render. Its date fields (year, month, day), time fields (hour,
    minute, second, nanos), and resolved UTC offset supply the values for the
    pattern tokens.

  pattern AS String
    The format string: a mix of literal characters and token runs drawn from the
    table above, with single quotes escaping literal text. An empty pattern
    produces an empty result.

RETURN VALUE
  AS String
    The rendered text, with each token replaced by the corresponding field of dt
    and every other character copied through unchanged. The empty pattern returns
    the empty string.

ERRORS
  77050003 (ErrInvalidFormat)
  Raised when pattern contains a run of letters that is not one of the recognized
  formatting tokens.

EXAMPLES
  Render a DateTime with a full date, time, and offset:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET dt AS DateTime = datetime::toUtc(datetime::now())
    LET text AS String = datetime::format(dt, "EEEE yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss Z")

  Use single quotes to include literal letters in the output:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET dt AS DateTime = datetime::toUtc(datetime::now())
    LET text AS String = datetime::format(dt, "yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss")

SEE ALSO
  datetime::parse, datetime::toIso, datetime::formatDuration
