NAME
  instant - build an Instant from seconds, nanoseconds, or time components

SYNOPSIS
  datetime::instant(seconds AS Integer) AS Instant
  datetime::instant(seconds AS Integer, nanos AS Integer) AS Instant
  datetime::instant(mins AS Integer, seconds AS Integer, nanos AS Integer) AS Instant
  datetime::instant(hours AS Integer, mins AS Integer, seconds AS Integer, nanos AS Integer) AS Instant
  datetime::instant(days AS Integer, hours AS Integer, mins AS Integer, seconds AS Integer, nanos AS Integer) AS Instant

PACKAGE
  datetime

IMPORTS
  IMPORT datetime

DESCRIPTION
  datetime::instant builds an Instant on the UTC timeline (Unix epoch,
  leap-second-free) at a given offset after 1970-01-01T00:00:00Z. The result
  carries whole seconds since the epoch in its seconds field and a sub-second
  remainder in its nanos field, normalized into the range 0 .. 999_999_999.

  instant is overloaded by argument count, with five disjoint forms. The one-
  and two-argument forms take whole seconds and, optionally, a nanosecond
  adjustment. The three-, four-, and five-argument forms are component builders
  that fold larger units down into a single second count: the three-argument
  form computes mins*60 + seconds, the four-argument form adds hours*3600, and
  the five-argument form adds days*86400, in every case adding the trailing
  nanos last.

  Whichever form is used, the supplied seconds and nanos are normalized: any
  whole seconds embedded in nanos are carried into the seconds field, and a
  negative nanos value borrows a second so the stored nanos always lands in
  0 .. 999_999_999. Every numeric argument may be negative, which selects an
  instant before the epoch. The one-argument form performs no normalization
  because its nanos is fixed at zero.

  instant is overloaded, so every parameter of the form you call must be
  supplied explicitly; the component forms carry no defaults (see
  standard_package.md). The folding and normalization are ordinary signed
  Integer arithmetic, so a sufficiently large day, hour, minute, or second
  magnitude can overflow the Integer range and trap. To shift an existing
  Instant by a span rather than build one from scratch, use datetime::add or
  datetime::subtract with a Duration. instant is pure: the same arguments always
  yield the same Instant, and it has no side effects.

OVERLOADS
  datetime::instant(seconds AS Integer) AS Instant
    The Instant exactly seconds after the epoch, with a zero nanosecond field.
    No normalization is performed.

  datetime::instant(seconds AS Integer, nanos AS Integer) AS Instant
    The Instant at seconds plus nanos nanoseconds, normalized so the stored
    nanos lands in 0 .. 999_999_999 and any whole seconds carry into seconds.

  datetime::instant(mins AS Integer, seconds AS Integer, nanos AS Integer) AS Instant
    The Instant at mins*60 + seconds whole seconds, plus nanos, normalized.

  datetime::instant(hours AS Integer, mins AS Integer, seconds AS Integer, nanos AS Integer) AS Instant
    The Instant at hours*3600 + mins*60 + seconds whole seconds, plus nanos,
    normalized.

  datetime::instant(days AS Integer, hours AS Integer, mins AS Integer, seconds AS Integer, nanos AS Integer) AS Instant
    The Instant at days*86400 + hours*3600 + mins*60 + seconds whole seconds,
    plus nanos, normalized.

PARAMETERS
  days AS Integer
    Whole days contributing days*86400 seconds. Present only in the
    five-argument form. May be negative.

  hours AS Integer
    Whole hours contributing hours*3600 seconds. Present in the four- and
    five-argument forms. May be negative.

  mins AS Integer
    Whole minutes contributing mins*60 seconds. Present in the three-, four-,
    and five-argument forms. May be negative.

  seconds AS Integer
    Whole seconds. In the one- and two-argument forms this is the complete
    second count since the epoch; in the component forms it is the seconds
    contribution added to the folded larger units. May be negative.

  nanos AS Integer
    A nanosecond adjustment added to the second count. Need not be in
    0 .. 999_999_999: any whole seconds it contains are carried into the
    seconds field and a negative value borrows a second during normalization.
    Absent only from the one-argument form, where it is fixed at zero.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Instant
    The Instant at the requested offset from the Unix epoch. The seconds field
    holds the normalized whole-second count (which may be negative for instants
    before the epoch) and the nanos field holds the sub-second remainder in
    0 .. 999_999_999.

ERRORS
  77050010 (ErrOverflow)
  Raised when folding the components into a second count, or carrying the
  normalized nanoseconds into the seconds field, produces a value outside the
  signed Integer range.

EXAMPLES
  Build an Instant from a whole-second epoch offset:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET t AS Instant = datetime::instant(1_700_000_000)

  Build an Instant with a sub-second adjustment that normalizes into the
  seconds field:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET t AS Instant = datetime::instant(10, 1_500_000_000)

  Build an Instant from day, hour, minute, second, and nanosecond components:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET t AS Instant = datetime::instant(1, 2, 3, 4, 0)

SEE ALSO
  datetime::duration, datetime::add, datetime::subtract, datetime::fromMillis
