NAME
  minus - subtract one Duration from another

SYNOPSIS
  datetime::minus(a AS Duration, b AS Duration) AS Duration

PACKAGE
  datetime

IMPORTS
  IMPORT datetime

DESCRIPTION
  datetime::minus returns the Duration a - b, the signed span left after removing
  one span of elapsed physical time from another. It subtracts the seconds field
  of b from the seconds field of a and the nanos field of b from the nanos field
  of a, independently, then normalizes the result so the stored nanos lands in
  the range 0 .. 999_999_999, borrowing a whole second from the seconds field
  when the nanosecond difference is negative.

  Because both operands are signed Durations, minus handles spans of either
  direction: subtracting a negative Duration lengthens the total, and subtracting
  a larger span from a smaller one yields a negative Duration. minus pairs with
  datetime::plus and datetime::negate, since datetime::minus(a, b) equals
  datetime::plus(a, datetime::negate(b)). A common use is measuring elapsed time
  between two datetime::monotonic readings.

  The arithmetic is uniform second-and-nanosecond subtraction with no awareness
  of calendars, time zones, or daylight-saving transitions; it simply differences
  elapsed physical time. To shift a point on the timeline rather than combine two
  spans, use datetime::subtract on an Instant. The subtraction is ordinary signed
  Integer arithmetic, so a difference whose second count falls outside the Integer
  range overflows and traps. minus is pure: the same two Durations always yield
  the same Duration, and it has no side effects.

PARAMETERS
  a AS Duration
    The span subtracted from. Its seconds field is a whole-second count (which
    may be negative) and its nanos field is the sub-second remainder.

  b AS Duration
    The span to subtract. Its seconds and nanos fields are subtracted from those
    of a. A negative Duration adds to the running total.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Duration
    The Duration a - b, normalized so its seconds field holds the whole-second
    count (which may be negative) and its nanos field holds the sub-second
    remainder in 0 .. 999_999_999.

ERRORS
  77050010 (ErrOverflow)
  Raised when subtracting the seconds fields, or borrowing the normalized
  nanoseconds from the seconds field, produces a value outside the signed
  Integer range.

EXAMPLES
  Subtract a 500-millisecond span from a 90-second span:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET a AS Duration = datetime::duration(90)
    LET b AS Duration = datetime::duration(0, 500_000_000)
    LET rest AS Duration = datetime::minus(a, b)

  Measure the elapsed time between two monotonic readings:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET start AS Duration = datetime::monotonic()
    LET finish AS Duration = datetime::monotonic()
    LET elapsed AS Duration = datetime::minus(finish, start)

SEE ALSO
  datetime::plus, datetime::negate, datetime::duration, datetime::subtract, datetime::monotonic
