NAME
  negate - return a Duration with the opposite sign

SYNOPSIS
  datetime::negate(d AS Duration) AS Duration

PACKAGE
  datetime

IMPORTS
  IMPORT datetime

DESCRIPTION
  datetime::negate returns the additive inverse of a Duration: the span that
  points the opposite way along a timeline and that, added to d, yields a zero
  span. A forward span of +90s becomes a backward span of -90s, and a backward
  span becomes forward. The zero Duration negates to itself.

  Negation acts on the whole span, not on each field independently. Both the
  seconds and the nanos field are negated and the result is re-normalized so the
  stored nanos always lands back in the range 0 .. 999_999_999, with any borrow
  carried into the seconds field. So a Duration whose seconds is 0 and whose
  nanos is 250_000_000 (a quarter second forward) negates to a Duration whose
  seconds is -1 and whose nanos is 750_000_000, which is the same magnitude
  pointing backward.

  Negation is the same operation as datetime::minus(zero, d). The arithmetic is
  ordinary signed Integer arithmetic, so negating the most negative possible
  seconds count has no positive counterpart in the Integer range and traps. The
  function is pure: the same Duration always negates to the same result, and it
  has no side effects.

PARAMETERS
  d AS Duration
    The span to negate. May be a forward span (positive seconds), a backward
    span (negative seconds), or the zero span. Its nanos field is assumed to be
    a normalized sub-second remainder in 0 .. 999_999_999, as produced by every
    datetime constructor.

RETURN VALUE
  AS Duration
    The span of equal magnitude pointing the opposite way. The seconds field
    holds the negated, re-normalized whole-second count and the nanos field
    holds the sub-second remainder in 0 .. 999_999_999. The zero span returns
    unchanged.

ERRORS
  77050010 (ErrOverflow)
  Raised when negating the span overflows the signed Integer range, which
  happens when the seconds count is the most negative representable Integer and
  therefore has no positive counterpart.

EXAMPLES
  Negate a forward span to get the matching backward span:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET forward AS Duration = datetime::duration(90)
    LET backward AS Duration = datetime::negate(forward)

  Negation re-normalizes a sub-second span:

    IMPORT datetime

    LET quarter AS Duration = datetime::duration(0, 250_000_000)
    LET back AS Duration = datetime::negate(quarter)

SEE ALSO
  datetime::duration, datetime::plus, datetime::minus, datetime::monotonic, datetime::formatDuration
